arXiv:2307.15151v1 [econ.EM] 27 Jul 2023  Predictability Tests Robust against Parameter Instability

                                                                             Christis Katsouris

                                                                    Department of Economics, University of Southampton

                                                                     Job Market Paper I (unedited)

                                                                             January 25, 2021

                                                                                            Abstract
                                          We consider Wald type statistics designed for joint predictability and structural break test-
                                          ing based on the instrumentation method of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). We show
                                          that under the assumption of nonstationary predictors: (i) the tests based on the OLS
                                          estimators converge to a nonstandard limiting distribution which depends on the nuisance
                                          coefficient of persistence; and (ii) the tests based on the IVX estimators can filter out the
                                          persistence under certain parameter restrictions due to the supremum functional. These
                                          results contribute to the literature of joint predictability and parameter instability testing
                                          by providing analytical tractable asymptotic theory when taking into account nonstation-
                                          ary regressors. We compare the finite-sample size and power performance of the Wald
                                          tests under both estimators via extensive Monte Carlo experiments. Critical values are
                                          computed using standard bootstrap inference methodologies. We illustrate the useful-
                                          ness of the proposed framework to test for predictability under the presence of parameter
                                          instability by examining the stock market predictability puzzle for the US equity premium.

                                          JEL classification: C12, C22, C26, C32, C53, C58.

                                          Keywords: Stock Return Predictability, Parameter Instability, Predictive Regression, IVX
                                          filtration, Local-to-unity asymptotic theory, Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, bootstrap.

                                              PhD Candidate, Department of Economics, University of Southampton - Highfield Campus, UK.
                                          Email: C.Katsouris@soton.ac.uk. I am grateful to my academic advisors Jean-Yves Pitarakis, Jose Olmo
                                          and Tassos Magalinos for their guidance, support and continuous encouragement. Moreover, I would like to
                                          thank session participants of the IX Workshop in Time Series Econometrics at the University of Zaragoza,
                                          the 2019 Conference of the International Association of Applied Econometrics (IAEE) at the University
                                          of Cyprus, as well as the participants of the 2018 and 2019 Econometric Workshops at the Department
                                          of Economics, for helpful conversations. Financial support from the University of Southampton Vice
                                          Chancellors PhD Scholarship is gratefully acknowledged. The author also acknowledge the use of the IRIDIS
                                          High Performance Computing Facility, and associated support services at the University of Southampton,
                                          in the completion of this work. All the usual disclaimers apply.

                                                                                                  i
1 Introduction

The stock predictability puzzle is an important research theme appeared in the financial
econometrics literature which has seen growing attention in recent years1. Various studies
have demonstrated that forecast performance via predictive regressions with macroeco-
nomic variables as predictors, is countercyclical, that is, there is a co-movement with the
business cycle. Further studies focused on identifying periods of episodic predictability;
a terminology adapted to describe the phenomenon of predictors "switching on" during
certain periods, while appear to have no predictive ability during other periods (e.g., see
Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012, 2017), Chinco et al. (2019), Demetrescu et al. (2020)).
These periods of unstable forecasting ability appear in time series models in the form of
parameter instability (see, Rossi and Inoue (2012), Inoue et al. (2017), Pitarakis (2017)
and Georgiev et al. (2018)). Considering this vibrant discussion, we aim to study how the
degree of persistence affects the asymptotic theory of related to the above aspects. Our
goal is to tackle the following econometric question: "How does the time series properties
of predictors affect predictability testing under the presence of parameter instability?"

The predictive regression model operates under the strong assumption of parameter sta-
bility, which could be violated in certain regions of the sample2. Moreover, the majority
of the structural break literature propose testing methodologies under the assumption of
stationary time series. Therefore, the development of a robust joint test against both
predictability and structural break is an important aspect to tackle. Related issues from
the predictability literature, include the high persistence of predictors as well as the econo-
metric implications of testing for structural break given the existence of nonstationary
regressors as captured via the local-to-unit root specification of the predictive regres-
sion. In this paper we propose an econometric framework for jointly testing against both
predictability and structural break. The tests are constructed in a similar manner as the
Wald type statistics proposed by Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012) in a threshold predictive
regression model3. Our contributions are threefold: (i) We propose a test statistic which
jointly tests against the alternative hypothesis of both predictability and structural break
and show that the test is robust to the persistence properties of predictors in the model;

    1In empirical finance the predictive regression model provides a suitable testing framework for aspects
such as conditional asset pricing and investment strategy performance evaluation. An extensive study
about the latter is presented by Pesaran and Timmermann (1995). The author examines the predictability
of stock returns from the perspective of optimal portfolio decision. Moreover, the author introduces the
concept of episodic predictability, arguing that predictability can be explained in accordance to certain
macroeconomic events. Moreover, related applied macroeconometric applications include the forecast-
ing of macroeconomic fundamentals as well as the examination of short-horizon vis-a-vis long-horizon
predictability.

    2A related study to parameter instability in prediction models is presented by Paye and Timmermann
(2006). In this paper, the authors propose a framework for identifying and estimating multiple breaks.

    3The particular framework and in the subsequent paper of Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2017) the authors
propose tests which capture the effects of linearity and the presence of a threshold effect in predictive
regressions with persistent predictors.

                                                       1
(ii) We show that the test statistic has a nuisance parameter free limiting distribution
under the assumption of stationary and mildly stationary regressors, while it converges
to a nonpivotal asymptotic distribution under the assumption of local-to-unit root (LUR)
or integrated regressors; (iii) We provide an extensive Monte Carlo simulation study
where we compare the empirical size and power of the sup IVX-Wald test. We also
present simulations to examine the finite-sample properties of the corresponding sup
OLS-Wald statistic. Lastly, we employ the proposed testing framework to investigate
the predictability puzzle based on the equity premium of US stock returns.

Related Literature The ideas in this paper are related to research done in two different
fields. From finance, it is related to the stock return predictability literature and from
the econometrics and statistics perspective it is related to the literature of parameter
instability and structural break testing methodologies. We aim to bridge the gap in the
literature by proposing a testing framework which incorporates both aspects.

Firstly, we provide a general overview of the predictability literature, starting with the
implementation of simple t-tests to detect statistical significance in stable relations of
predictants such as equity index returns, on the lagged time series of predictors. From
extensive empirical applications, this practise has been proved to cause distorted inference
due to the presence of high persistent predictors, since nonstandard terms appear in the
limiting distribution of the t-test. In particular, Stambaugh (1999) observed this finite
sample bias4 which occurs when the classical least squares estimator is employed for
statistical inference. Furthermore, Amihud and Hurvich (2004) consider a second-order
bias-correction and propose a reduced-bias OLS based estimator. Both aforementioned
methods are considered to provide a post-estimation bias correction in finite samples.

Secondly, the predictability literature was extended to nonstandard inference to account
for the presence of nonstationary predictors; some of the most notable contributions in-
clude the Bonferroni-type approach as in Cavanagh et al. (1995) and Campbell and Yogo
(2006), the conditional likelihood method based on sufficient statistics5 proposed by
Jansson and Moreira (2006) and the control function method proposed by Elliott (2011).
The drawback of these testing methodologies is that the asymptotic theory has some
undesirable properties such as the uncorrectable bias due to the presence of nuisance
parameter in the limit distribution (see, Phillips and Lee (2013)). Moreover, the particu-
lar approaches are computational complex especially in multivariate predictive regression
settings. For instance, Kasparis et al. (2015) propose a set of nonparametric predictive
tests which allows for nonlinearities and offers robustness to integration order.

    4Notice that the Stambaugh bias correction is based on the studies of Marriott and Pope (1954) and
Kendall (1954) who proposed suitable bias correction in autocorrelations.

    5The idea of sufficient statistics considers optimal tests invariant under transformation based on the
curved exponential family. This framework allows to use the conditional restrictions testing problem in the
presence of nuisance parameters and is particularly appealing in the case of near integrated regressors.

                                                       2
Thirdly, a novel approach that recently has been attracting much attention is the instru-
mental variable-based test proposed by Kostakis et al. (2015) (KMS, hereafter), which
is build upon the theoretical framework developed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009).
This methodology, referred to as IVX-Wald test, provides a robust framework for predic-
tive regression models which is valid for predictors with general persistence properties.
Specifically, the asymptotic theory shows that the IVX estimator which converges to a
mixed Gaussian distribution, successfully removes the long-run endogeneity, that appears
due to the innovation structure of the model, and provides a pivotal statistic robust
under different degrees of persistence or even regressors of mixed integration (e.g., see
Phillips and Lee (2016)). Hence, a self-normalized Wald statistic can be constructed
that converges to a nuisance parameter free 2 limiting distribution. More importantly,
the IVX filtration implies a direct inference procedure via the various moment approxima-
tions (e.g., long-run covariance matrices) and can be easily extended to the multivariate
predictive regression model under certain regulatory conditions.

The aforementioned literature operates under the assumption of parameter constancy6
which implies a stable predictive relationship over the sample period. However, due to the
nature of economic conditions, shifting between periods of market tranquillity and periods
of market exuberance, the phenomenon of episodic predictability7 has been proposed
to capture these "pockets" of predictability across business cycles (see, Farmer et al.
(2019)). This implies the existence of time-varying predictability which can be examined
within an econometric framework which accommodates time-varying parameters. In this
paper, we approach this aspect by proposing to test for the existence of joint predictability
and structural break, in the form of a single parameter shift at an unknown break-point.
Thus, our approach is closer to the framework of Andrews (1993) who proposed Wald-
type statistics for testing for a single structural break at an unknown break-point.

The presence of structural break in predictive regression models implies variation in pre-
dictability across time. As a result, standard testing methodologies for break detection,
such as Andrew's Wald statistics for linear regression models as well as the family of tests
proposed by Bai and Perron (1998) can no longer be valid for nonstationary8 predictors

    6Note that, the literature of structural change goes back to 1940s and 1950s with the pioneering
work of Wald on sequential hypothesis testing as well as the seminal work of Page (1954) which proposes
methodologies for detecting anomalies in control charting, an idea further developed by Chu et al. (1995)
and Chu et al. (1996) who consider testing for structural break in the sense of contaminated and non-
contaminated periods in linear regression models. Further seminal studies for structural break tests include
Chow (1960), Hawkins (1987) and Ploberger and Krämer (1990) among others.

    7Note that, formal econometric methods to test for episodic predictability have been recently proposed
by Demetrescu et al. (2020), who consider related subsampling techniques.

    8The frameworks proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Magdalinos and Phillips (2009) ex-
plicitly examine the various forms of nonstationarity attributed due to the structure of the predictive and
cointegrated system, as captured by specific characteristics of the system. This is a major distinction in the
literature which previously thought that the presence of nonstationarity in the regressors as a charateristic
occurring due to the autoregressive specification of the model predictors solely.

                                                       3
as captured by the autoregressive specification of the predictive regression model. This
invalidity is demonstrated by the simulation studies of Paye and Timmermann (2006).
More specifically, the authors show that in the case of highly correlated innovations and
(unfiltered) persistent predictors, an implementation of a sup-F test and UDMax test can
cause severe size distortions when testing for structural breaks in time series. Moreover,
the optimal test of Elliot and Muller has good empirical size performance, but distortions
appear in the asymptotic properties of the power function of the test.

The literature of structural break tests has recently focused in the construction of suitable
testing frameworks for predictive regression models. Cai et al. (2015) propose modelling
smooth structural breaks using an L2- type statistic, in predictive regressions with non-
stationary predictors. A different approach include the study of Pitarakis (2017) who
consider a CUSUM-type statistic. Additionally, due to the occurrence of nonstandard
limiting distributions in standard structural break test implementations, Georgiev et al.
(2018) and Georgiev et al. (2019) propose the use of a fixed regressor wild bootstrap
procedure9 to approximate critical values. Another related study to the bootstrapping
approach of structural break tests is presented by Boldea et al. (2019). However, the
proposed framework is restricted to the case of exogenous regressors.

Despite the recent developments of the structural break literature for predictive regres-
sions, these methodologies consider the detection of parameter instability in predictive
regression models without simultaneously testing whether the tests are robust to the
presence of predictability around the break-point location. The only existing study that
jointly tests for the existence of both effects is the paper of Demetrescu et al. (2020),
who propose to combine testing for predictability using appropriate subsampling tech-
niques10(see also similar techniques employed by Hansen (2000a)). The authors propose
to use bootstrap-based inference due to the existence of a non-pivotal limiting distribu-
tion, which is a robust approach to provide statistical validity of the tests.

Further aspects related to the IV based approach of KMS that we follow in this paper, can
be also examined within the above parameter instability testing procedures. Recent ap-
plications include Magdalinos (2020) who consider predictability tests with GARCH-type
effects (see also, Gungor and Luger (2020) ) as well as Yang et al. (2020) who consider
a modification of the KMS test that accounts for serial correlation in the error term of
the linear predictive regression. Moreover, Pang et al. (2020) propose testing method-
ologies for multiple structural breaks under the presence of nonstationary predictors with
an application to financial bubble detection. All these features demonstrate additional
refinements one can consider as future research related to our proposed framework.

    9Notice that the particular fixed regressor wild bootstrap procedure is an extension to the fixed regressor
bootstrap approach employed by Hansen (2000b) to deal with the appearance of a nonstandard limiting
distribution due to nonstationary regressors.

   10The subsampling technique is similarly employed by Davidson and Monticini (2010) in the context of
detecting structural break due to break in cointegration of the relation under investigation.

                                                       4
Outline The paper is organized as follows. Section 2, presents the predictive regression
model along with the background assumptions. This Section also includes a review of the
IVX instrumentation procedure of KMS, which is employed for the construction of the
proposed test statistic. Section 3, presents the asymptotic theory of the test statistic
under different degrees of regressors persistence. Section 4 presents an extensive Monte
Carlo simulation study. Section 5 illustrates an application to the US stock returns which
provides evidence of the empirical relevance of the proposed tests for jointly testing
predictability and structural break. Section 6 concludes. All the mathematical proofs and
related results are included in the Appendix of the paper.

2 Econometric Model and main assumptions

In this section we present the theoretical background within which we operate. We
denote with (, F , P) a suitable probability space on which all of the random elements
are defined11. Moreover, throughout the paper, all limits are taken as T  , where
T is the sample size. The symbol "  " is used to denote the weak convergence of
the associated probability measures as T  . The symbol d denotes convergence in
distribution and plim denotes convergence in probability, within the probability space. Let
{Yt, Xt}Tt=1 denote the corresponding random variables of the underline distributions.

2.1 Predictive Regression Model

Consider the predictive regression model with a possible single structural break

yt = t + t xt-1 + ut             0  t  T,                                         (2.1)
xt = RT xt-1 + vt,                                                                (2.2)

where yt  R is an one-dimensional vector and xt  Rp×1 is a p-dimensional vector of
predictors, with an initial condition x0 = Op(1) which we assume that does not affect
the limit theory. Moreover, the autocorrelation matrix is expressed as below

                 C                                                                (2.3)
RT = Ip - T x

where C = diag{c1, ..., cp} is a p×p matrix. The degree of persistence in the regressors is
determined by the unknown persistence coefficients ci 's which are assumed to be positive
constants and the exponent rate x  R, that is, x < 1, x  (0, 1) or x > 1.

   11Notice that this is an important assumption, since our framework can be extended to Hilbert spaces
within which we can denote the expectation operator and higher moments as inner products. In that sce-
nario, structural break has a slightly different interpretation. We leave this as a future research endeavour.

5
The predictive regression model given by (2.1)-(2.2) accommodates the existence of a

single unknown structural break at location k. Therefore, the model parameters take the

following form which indicate a time-varying parameter vector (i.e., parameter instability)

                                              
           1,                                 1,
     t  =  1,        0t k        and  t    =  2,       0t k            (2.4)
                     k tT                              k t T

where 1  Rp×1 and 2  Rp×1 while for the univariate model 1  R and 2  R.

To develop asymptotic theory suitable for robust inference in the predictive regression
model under the presence of parameter instability and nonstationarity we impose the
following assumptions and regulatory conditions as described below.
Assumption 1. Let et = (ut, vt) be a (p + 1)-dimensional vector. The innovation
sequence et is a conditionally homoscedastic martingale difference sequence ( m.d.s )
such that the following two moment conditions hold:

A1. E [et |Ft-1] = 0, where Ft =  (ut, ut-1, ...) is the natural filtration.

A2. E [et et |Ft-1] = ee , where ee  R(p+1)×(p+1) is a positive-definite covariance
      matrix, which has the following form:

                           ee =  u2   u v     > 0.
                                 v u  v v

with u2  R, uv  Rp×1 and vv  Rp×p, where p is the number of predictors.

Assumption A1 indicates that the innovation vector is a martingale difference sequence
while A2 indicates that the innovation sequence is conditionally homoscedastic. Under
conditions A1 and A2, the following Functional Central Limit Theorem (FCLT ) applies

1    T r     =  1    T r   ut   BM (ee) =     Bu(r )   = e1e/2W (r ),
  T               T  t =1  vt                 Bv (r )
         et

     t =1

where e1/e2W (r ) is a (p + 1)-dimensional Brownian motion with covariance matrix ee.

The above error structure provides a realistic interpretation of macroeconomic shocks.
In other words, the shocks to yt and xt-1, that is, ut and vt respectively, appear to
be contemporaneously correlated, a commonly used assumption in predictive regression
models. Related definitions can be found in Phillips and Durlauf (1986), Phillips (1987)
and Phillips (1988). Moreover, the implementation of a FCLT 12 allows to derive the
limiting distribution of Wald type statistics for jointly testing predictability and structural
break within the framework of this paper.

   12A standard FCLT for linear regression models is introduced by Theorem 7.17 in White (2001).

                                 6
Assumption 2. The innovation to xt is a linear process with the following representation

                                     t i.i.d (0, ee )

vt := (L)t  j t-j ,

                               j =0

where {}j=0 is a sequence of absolute summable constant matrices such that        j
                                                                            j =0

has full rank and 0 = Ip with (1) = 0, allowing for the presence of serial correlation.

To allow for the detection of possible structural breaks via the predictive regression model
and avoid the presence of nuisance parameters at the boundary of the parameter space
we also impose the following assumption.

Assumption 3. Let k = T , where 0 <  < 1. Then, the fraction of structural break
defined as 0 = k0/T is within the interior of (0, 1) for some fixed 0 parameter13.

Assumption 4. The estimator , is Ft-measurable and [0, 1]-valued. Then, consistent
estimation of the break-point implies that  some m0 such that  -  = Op (T -m0).

Remark 1. Assumption 2 gives the linear process representation of innovations proposed
by Phillips and Solo (1992) and can accommodate the case of serial correlation or even
conditional heteroscedasticity with suitable specifications. Assumption 3 excludes struc-
tural breaks at the boundaries of the sample. Assumption 4 ensures the existence of a
consistent estimator of the unknown break-point which imply that lim E |^ - | = 0.

                                                                                                                                 T 

For instance, assuming that we are testing for an unknown break-point, to avoid uniden-
tified parameters under the null hypothesis the supremum functional is employed for the
construction of the Wald type statistics we propose in the next section.

When the time-varying parameters t and t are both constant over the full sample, that
is, 1 = 2 =  and 1 = 2 = , then the regression specification given by (2.1)-(2.2)
reduces to the standard predictive regression model. In that case, the hypothesis testing
of interest is finding statistical evidence against the null hypothesis of no predictability14.
Furthermore, it has been shown in the literature when the ordinary least squares estima-
tion is employed, then statistical inference is nonstandard due to the fact that the limiting
distribution of the tests depends on the unknown persistence parameter, ci , and results
to uncorrectable asymptotic bias. Since in our setup we are interested in detecting a
single structural break an appropriate bias correction which occurs due to endogeneity
should take into consideration the presence of these two regimes15.

   13Notice that this mathematical statement does not imply that we consider only known break-points.
   14For instance, the nonparametric predictive test of Kasparis et al. (2015) is constructed by comparing
the nonparametric functional form estimator with the parametric counterpart estimator. In our setup, the
estimation procedure is simpler to that aspect, however it still requires to carefully examine the stochastic
properties of the Wald type statistics under nonstationarity and the presence of a single structural break.
   15Notice that the underline regimes of our framework are motivated by the hypothesis of parameter
instability in the predictive regression model rather than the presence of an independent threshold variable
which induces the presence of the two regimes, as in Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012, 2017).

                                                       7
2.2 Robust Inference with the IVX filtration

To deal with the aforementioned challenges for inference in predictive regression models,
a robust procedure has been introduced by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and extended
by Kostakis et al. (2015) to detect the presence of predictability via the IVX-Wald test.
The particular methodology, called IVX filtation, allows for the endogenous formulation
of instruments based on the information contained in the regressors of the predictive
regression. As a result, the degree of persistence of the instrumental variable has degree
of persistence explicitly controlled so that the process is mildly integrated.

Specifically, the IVX filtration considers the first order difference of the corresponding
autocorrelation regression such as it can be expressed as below

                             C                                                          (2.5)
                   xt = T x xt-1 + vt, x  (0, 1).

The particular first difference is not an innovation process unless the regressor belongs
to the persistence class of integrated processes. However, it behaves asymptotically as
an innovation after linear filtering by a matrix consisting of near-stationary roots16.

Therefore, the procedure requires to choose an artificial coefficient matrix of the form

               RT z =      Ip  -  Cz    , z  (0, 1), cz > 0.                            (2.6)
                                  T z

where Cz = diag{cz,1, ..., cz,p}, cz > 0 for all i  {1, ..., p}. Then, the instrumental
regressor matrix zt  RT ×p can be constructed as below

            t                                  Cz
                                               T z
zt =           Rtz-j xj ,      Rz =     Ip  -       , z  (0, 1), Cz > 0.                (2.7)

         j =1

To see this, notice that using expression (2.5) we obtain the following decomposition

      t             C                          t                 C      t
                   T x xj-1 + uj                                T x
zt =        Rtz-j                       =          Rtz-j uj  +             Rtz-j xj-1.  (2.8)

      j =1                                  j =1                        j =1

which can be written via the following expression

             C                    t                                  t
zt = zt + T t ,
                           zt =         Rtz-j vj and t =                Rtz-j xj-1.     (2.9)

                                  j =1                          j =1

Therefore, the IVX filtration proposes to use the constructed zt instruments for the re-
gressors xt which are considered to behave asymptotically as mildly-integrated processes.

   16Note this assumption is a key idea in the development of the asymptotic theory in cointegrated systems
for regressors with various types of nonstationarity (see, Phillips and Magdalinos (2009)).

                                        8
More explicitly, by replacing xt with the instrument zt which has a controllable degree
of persistence, result to a robust inference procedure which accounts for the effects of
nonstationarity. Then, the tuning parameters, which are the exponent rate z and the
diagonal matrix Cz are selected to ensure that zt is mildly integrated; less persistence
than a unit root or a regressor assumed to be generated via a local-unit-root process.

Thus, the IV based approach, implies that the IVX estimator is expressed as below

                        IV X =         T                          -1 T       yt - y¯T     zt-1,          (2.10)
                                                                       t =1
                                          (xt - x¯T -1) zt-1

                                      t =1

where  x¯T -1  =  1     T     xt  -1  and  y¯T  =  1  T     yt ,  are  the   corresponding       sample  means.
                  T     t =1                       T  t =1

As shown by Theorem A in the Appendix of KMS, the IVX estimator converges to a mixed
Gaussian17 limiting distribution, which holds regardless of the degree of persistence of
the regressors in the model. In turn, this property allows to construct a self-normalized
Wald-type statistic which is shown to converge to a standard 2-distribution.

The classical testing hypothesis implies that, H0 : R = 0 vs H1 : R = 0, where R the
full rank q × p restriction matrix with rank q. Then, the IVX-Wald statistic can be used
to test the null hypothesis of no predictability in predictive regression models.

The IVX-Wald statistic is expressed as below

                                           WTIV X = IV XQR-1IV X                                         (2.11)

where QR is a consistent estimator of the asymptotic variance-covariance matrix of IV X
that accommodates both long-run endogeneity caused by the correlation between the
error terms of the system, that is, ut and vt, and the finite-sample distortion which
results from removing the model intercept. The covariance matrix QR, is derived via the
following fully modified (FM) estimation of the system covariance terms

                                       T               -1              T                  -1

                        QR =              zt -1 xt -1     M                  xt -1 zt -1                 (2.12)
                                                                                                         (2.13)
                                      t =1                        t =1                                   (2.14)

                              M = u2        T                 - T z¯T -1z¯T -1F M

                                               zt -1 zt -1

                                           t =1

                        F M = uu - uv uu uv

where  zT -1   =     1  T     z~t-1.  Notice that for the univariate predictive regression then
                     T  t =1

F M  F2 M and uu  u2, where u2 is a consistent estimator of u2. In that case, we

can use the bias correction of KMS for the univariate model which is given by

   17The mixed Gaussianity property of the IVX estimator is also extensively examined in the papers of
Phillips and Lee (2013) and Phillips and Lee (2016) under various integration orders.

                                                       9
    T                                                             uv .
                                                                uu v v
M=        zt2-1 - T z¯t2-1 1 - u2v u2,       with   u2v      =          (2.15)

    t =1

A key aspect for the computation of the IVX-Wald statistic is the estimation procedure
for the matrices uv and uu, which represent the estimated long-run covariance between
ut and vt and the long-run variance of ut respectively. More specifically, these covariance
matrices can be constructed using nonparametric kernels with preselected bandwidth
parameters, such as the Newey-West type estimators (see, KMS for detailed description
and related studies such as Newey and West (1987) and Andrews (1991)).

Furthermore, it can be proved that under the null hypothesis which imposes a set of linear
restrictions in the parameter vector , we obtain that WTIV X = 2(q) as T   (see,
Theorem 1 in KMS). This important limit theory result provides a unified framework for
robust inference and testing regardless the persistence properties of regressors. A simple
example is the application of the IVX-Wald test for inferring the individual statistical sig-
nificance of predictors under abstract degree of persistence. For additional scenarios such
as predictors of mixed integration order see Phillips and Lee (2013) and Phillips and Lee
(2016). In these cases the powerful property of the IVX-Wald statistic still holds.

2.3 Comparing OLS against IVX based estimators

In this section, we present some preliminary comparisons between the OLS-Wald and
the IVX-Wald statistics, under the null hypothesis of no structural break, to motivate
further our research. These comparisons aim to shed some light on the ability of the OLS
estimator to detect parameter instability under the assumption of nonstationary predic-
tors. Furthermore, we examine the performance of the IVX estimator for robustifying
inference in predictive regression models with persistent18 predictors under the presence
of parameter instability which has been recently a stylized fact in various economic data.

We consider that the pair {(yt, xt) : 1  t  T } is generated by the following bivariate
predictive regression system drawn from an i.i.d normally distributed error sequence

                         yt = t xt-1 + ut ,                             (2.16)
                                                                        (2.17)
                         xt =  1  -  c  xt-1 + vt,  x0 = 0.
                                     T

where (ut , vt) i.i.d N    u2 uv     with ci > 0 or ci < 0 where yt  R and xt  R.
                         u v v2

   18Notice that the assumption of persistent or integrated regressors is commonly used in the time series
econometrics literature due to the nature of economic and financial variables.

                                        10
We are particularly interested to design Wald statistics robust to nonstationarity which
allows to test jointly for the presence of predictability and parameter instability in the
predictive regression model given by (2.16) and (2.17). To demonstrate that the esti-
mator of the model parameter can affect the limiting distribution of the test and thus
statistical inference we consider via a Monte Carlo experiment testing for a structural
break. Thus, we can apply the sup-Wald statistics using each estimator separately by
partitioning the sample, estimating the test statistic for each partition and then taking
the supremum over the generated sequence of test statistics19.

Initially, we consider that the covariance matrix  which captures the dependence between
the predictive regression and the persistent regressor has a unit variance. Notice that
in this paper we consider a single structural change as in the seminal paper of Andrews
(1993). When the break-point location, denoted with  is known, then to construct the
Wald statistic we estimate model parameters 1() for t = {1, ..., T } and 2() for
t = {T  + 1, ..., T } based on the observations of the corresponding sub-samples. When
the break-point location is unknown then we consider the closed interval   [1, 2].

Under the null hypothesis of no structural break, H0 : 1 = 2, which implies parameter
constancy across the full sample. We report rejection frequencies from 5,000 Monte
Carlo replications, using the predictive regression model with a fixed parameter  = 0.25.
For the purpose of comparability we use the critical values that correspond to the NNB
asymptotic critical values given by Table 1 of Andrews (1993). The empirical size results
for the sup OLS-Wald statistic are presented on Table 1 and 3, while additional results
with 10,000 replications can be found on Table ?? and ??.

As we can see from these rejection frequencies, under the assumption of persistent pre-
dictors (low values of c) when we use the critical values that correspond to the standard
NBB limiting distribution we obtain size distortions which considerably deteriorate for
larger correlation values between the error sequences ut and vt. Thus, using the OLS
estimator especially when modelling nonstationarity can produce biased inference. The
econometric intuition is clear, constructing structural break statistics based on the OLS
estimator when the predictor follows a local-to-unit root process causes not correctable
size distortions of the tests due to the fact that the degree of persistence coefficient ci is
unknown a prior and cannot be consistently estimated (see, Proposition 1). Furthermore,
when we implement the sup IVX-Wald statistic as explained in the previous section then
we will need to carefully examine the stochastic properties of the proposed tests.

Firstly, we briefly examine in this setting the asymptotic theory of the two estimators
to understand which components of the limiting distribution result into nonstandard
sampling results especially due to the introduction of parameter instability.

   19Formal assumptions and asymptotic theory regarding the implementation of the sup-Wald test can
be found in Andrews (1993). In this section, we demonstrate simple comparisons of the finite sample
performance of the two Wald-type statistics based on the OLS and IVX estimators respectively.

                                                      11
Notice that the appearance of nonstandard limiting distribution occurs in the case we
estimate the sup OLS-Wald statistic, since when we estimate the model parameter  by
OLS its limiting distribution depends on the following two components

T                                          T 

      (xt-1 - x¯T -1) (xt-1 - x¯T -1) and        (xt-1 - x¯T -1) (vt-1 - v¯T ) .  (2.18)

t =1                                       t =1

The first component converges to the integral of a squared demeaned OU process, while
the second component weakly converges to a stochastic integral of that demeaned OU
process. Therefore, under the assumption of nonstationary regressors and due to the
appearance of the corresponding stochastic integral approximations, the second moment
of the asymptotic distribution of the model estimator have a nonconstant variance and a
nonstandard limiting distribution. For instance, Georgiev et al. (2018) derive the limiting
distribution of the sup-Wald test statistic under the local-to-unit-root generating process,
which results to a non-pivotal asymptotic theory. In order to deal with this problem, the
authors propose to use the fixed regressor bootstrap which is asymptotically valid even
under the nonstationarity assumption.

Secondly, in the case we estimate the model parameter using the IVX instrumentation,
then the following matrix moments appear

      T                                    T 

            zt-1 (xt-1 - x¯T -1) and                   zt-1 (vt-1 - v¯T ) .       (2.19)

      t =1                                       t =1

The asymptotic theory of the above moment matrices is examined extensively by KMS.
A summary of the main results is presented by Lemma 1 in Appendix A of this paper.

Both OLS and IVX estimators weakly converge to a mixed Gaussian distribution, thus
to better understand the differences between the OLS and the IVX estimator20 and how
these manifest in the asymptotic theory of the tests, we examine the stochastic quantity

                            +                                                     (2.20)
            PcIV X () :=
                                              JCd JC
                             1+
                                           0
                                             1

                                              JCd JC

                                           0

The Pc () quantity which appears in the limiting distribution of the Wald statistics when
an IVX estimator is employed, is a random variable. Thus, considering the analytical form
of this random quantity will require to derive an analytical approximation with stochastic
terms of higher order, which is a challenging task.

   20The asymptotic distribution of the IVX estimator in the univariate predictive regression model is proved
to be mixed Gaussian. A proof of this asymptotic result can be found in Phillips and Lee (2016).

                                                      12
Similarly, the corresponding expression for the OLS estimator is is a function of the
stochastic quantity

                

PcOLS () :=  0    J2Cd JC
               1
                           .  (2.21)

             0    J2Cd JC

To obtain some insights regarding the asymptotic behaviour of the stochastic quantities
PcIV X () and PcOLS () we use integral approximation simulation techniques with 10,000
replications for a fixed   [0.15, 0.85]. Specifically, to approximate the underline OU
process which drives these stochastic quantities we use a 1000-step random walk.

Moreover, to make these heuristic arguments more apparent, we plot the mean and 95%
confidence intervals of the particular empirical fluctuation processes for values of the
persistence parameter c  {1, 5, 100}. As we can see from Figure 1, for low persistence
levels the asymptotic variance of these processes exhibit a linear growth rate for both
the OLS and the IVX estimators since Pc () has approximate linear increments with
. In other words, since the predictive regression model does not assume stationarity
for the persistence properties of regressors then by allowing for breaks if we use the
OLS based estimator then the accumulation of information as seen by the the second
moments has a faster convergence rate especially in the case of high persistence. On the
other hand, when we use the IVX estimator this accumulation of information is smoother
for different values of  due to the properties of the particular estimator in filtering out
abstract degrees of persistence, even under time-varying settings.

FIGURE 1.

13
3 Joint Predictability and Structural Break Testing

We focus on the linear predictive regression model and in particular the univariate case.
Our proposed testing framework and related asymptotic theory can be extended to the
multivariate predictive regression with suitable notation modification. Testing for a single
structural break at an unknown break point location within the full sample requires that
the multiple predictive regression is expressed as below

yt = (1 + 1 xt-1) 1{t  k } + (2 + 2 xt-1) 1{t > k } + ut                    (3.1)

where k = T  for some   (0, 1), with . denoting the integer part operator.

To derive the asymptotic theory of the tests we employ the local-unit-root specification

proposed by Phillips (1987). Specifically, since the set of regressors are assumed to

be generated via the LUR process xt =  Ip  -  C  xt-1 + vt, we consider the following
                                              T

p-dimensional Gaussian process

                                       r         r  (0, 1).                 (3.2)

                  Kc (r ) = e(r-s)C d Bv (s),

                                     0

which satisfies the Black-Scholes differential equation dKc (r )  cKrc (r ) + dBv (r ), with
Kc (r ) = 0, implying also that Kc (r )  v Jc (r ), where Jc (r ) = e(r-s)Cd Wv (s) and

                                                                                                                                0

Kc (r ) the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck, (OU) process,21 which encompasses the unit root case

such that Jc (r )  Bv (r ), for C = 0.

3.1 Classical Least Squares Estimation

In this Section, we derive the asymptotic theory result that corresponds to a standard
sup-Wald test, based on the OLS estimator, when testing for a single structural break in
predictive regressions with multiple predictors.

We denote with X1 := 1{t  k} xt1{t  k} , X2 := 1{t > k} xt1{t > k} and define
X = [X1 X2]  RT ×2(p+1) the corresponding partitioned matrix and R = [Ip+1 - Ip+1]
with Ip+1 denoting an identity matrix. Moreover, we denote with  := (1, 2), the
parameter vector, then the predictive regression is y = X + u. Thus, the OLS Wald

statistic for testing the null hypothesis of no structural break, that is, H0 : 1 = 2 against
H1 : 1 = 2, where j = (j , j ) for j = 1, 2, is given by the following expression

WTOLS ()  =  1    1() - 2()  R (XX)-1 R -1       1() - 2()                  (3.3)
             ^u2

   21The OU is a stationary Gaussian process with an autocorrelation function that decays exponentially
over time. Moreover, the continuous time OU diffusion process has a unique solution.

                                       14
Statistical inference under the null hypothesis of no structural break in the predictive
regression are conducted using the supremum functional. The sup OLS-Wald statistic is

           WOLS(t) := sup WTOLS(), for t1  t  t2.                     (3.4)
                                   [1,2]

where 0 < 1 < 1 and 0 < 2 < 1 with 2 = 1 - 1.

Under the null hypothesis the breakpoint k is unidentified and so the supremum func-

tional selects the maximum Wald statistic corresponding to a sequence of Wald statistics

evaluated at values within the interval [1, 2]. Specifically, in order to construct the
corresponding supremum Wald tests we split the full sample {yj , xj-1}Tj=1 into two sub-
samples; the first sub-sample corresponds to the time period before time t, {yj , xj-1}tj=1
and the second sub-sample corresponds to the time period after time t, {yj , xj-1}Tj=t+1.
Due to the fact that we operate within the Skorokhod topology the sample moments

that correspond to these sub-samples weakly converge to the corresponding asymptotic

result which are based on the D[0, 1] topology. For instance, when deriving the sample

moments we can use the notation t  [t1, t2], where t1 and t2 are the lower and upper

bounds for the possible break-point location.

Theorem 1. If Assumptions 1 and 3 hold and  denotes the unknown break-point, then

the sup OLS-Wald statistic under the null hypothesis H0 : 1 = 2 against H1 : 1 = 2,
where j = (j , j) with j = 1, 2 based on the predictive regression model (2.1)-(2.2)
with x = 122 weakly converges to the following limiting distribution

           WOLS()  sup WTOLS()  sup Nc ()Mc ()-1Nc ()                 (3.5)

           [1,2]  [1,2]

where

           Mc ()-1 = Gc () - Gc ()Gc (1)-1Gc ()                       (3.6)

and

                                               -1                   

       Nc () = Gc ()-1Hc () - Gc (1) - Gc () Hc (1) - Hc ()           (3.7)

such that

                                                      

           Gc () := Kc (r )Kc (r )d r and Hc () := Kc (r )d Bu(r )    (3.8)

           0                                       0

with Gc ()  R(p+1)×(p+1) a positive-definite stochastic matrix and Hc ()  R(p+1)×1.

   22Note that this parameter restriction for the exponent rate implies that xt follows a LUR process.

                                                      15
Theorem 1 provides a novel result in the literature and our first theoretical contribution,
demonstrating that the sup OLS-Wald statistic as a structural break test on an unknown
location based on the predictive regression model with persistent predictors, does not
converge to the NBB result as proposed by Andrews (1993) in linear regressions. Thus,
we show that the asymptotic theory of the test depends on the nuisance parameter of
persistence ci . However, when the break-point is known a prior, such as   0, it can
be easily proved that the limit theory of the OLS-Wald test converges to a NBB even in
the case of persistent predictors. The proof of Theorem 1 is shown in Appendix C.

3.2 IVX based Estimation

In this section, we examine the IVX-Wald based tests for jointly testing for the presence
of predictability and parameter instability based on the predictive regression model. The
null hypothesis remains the same as in the IVX-Wald test, but the alternative hypothesis
is constructed so that it captures both effects. We examine separately the case of stable
model intercept and the case of unstable model intercept. The model estimates of the
two sub-samples are used to construct the proposed test statistics. We denote with
1IV X (t) and 2IV X (t) the IVX estimates of the two sub-samples; and with Q1 (t) and
Q2 (t) the corresponding covariance matrices. The sample estimates are given by

            1  t                    -1       1  t
            t                                t
1IV X(t) =           z1,j-1x1 ,j-1                    z1,j -1 yj                      (3.9)
                                                                                     (3.10)
               j =1                             j =1

              1      T                       -1         1         T
            T -t                                      T -t
2IV X(t) =                    z2,j-1x2 ,j-1                           z2,j -1 yj  .

                     j =t +1                                j =t +1

3.2.1 Joint Wald Tests under stable model intercept

We begin our asymptotic theory analysis by considering the case in which the model
intercept  is assumed to be stable, that is, under the null hypothesis there is no structural
break in the model intercept. Then, the testing hypothesis of interest is given by

                     H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2                                            (3.11)

For evaluating our hypothesis we use the IVX-Wald test which has the following form23

                                                      -1

WIV X (t) = 1IV X (t) - 2IV X (t) Q1(t) + Q2(t)                   1IV X(t) - 2IV X(t) . (3.12)

   23Note that the covariance matrices are computed based on the long-covariance matrices and corre-
sponding FM corrections given by KMS, see also Kasparis et al. (2015). These definitions are employed
since we do not rule out the strong assumption of a weakly covariance dependence in the model.

                                        16
We denote with WIV X(t)  sup WIV X(t), the corresponding sup IVX-Wald statistic,
                                                        t [t1 ,t2 ]

since we consider the case of the unknown break-point. The two IVX estimates of  and

their corresponding asymptotic variances are computed, using the data from each sub-
sample separately. Thus, the WIV X(t) statistic can be thought as a Chow-type statistic
for detecting break at time t, such that t1  t  t2. Then, due to the unknown nature

of the break-point the sup Wald test is simply a sequence of Chow-type statistics within
the same probability space. Theorem 2 presents the limiting distribution of WIV X(t),
under the null hypothesis of no parameter instability in the predictive regression model.

Theorem 2. If Assumptions 1 and 3 hold and  denotes the unknown break-point, then
the sup IVX-Wald statistic under the null hypothesis (with  known to be stable a priori)
H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2, based on the predictive regression model (2.1)-(2.2) and no
restriction on the exponent rate x , has the following asymptotic behaviour

                             WIV X(t)  sup N()M()-1N()                                   (3.13)
                                                                   [1,2]

with t  [t1, t2]24 and   [1, 2], where

           N() = Bp() - R()Bp(1)                                                         (3.14)
           M() =  Ip - R() Ip - R()  + (1 - )R()R()                                      (3.15)

such that

                                                  1       -1
           
             xx +           Bd B     xx + Bd B                            , if x > 1

                         0                     0

R() = Ipxx +                                      1           -1                         (3.16)

                            JCd JC   xx + JC d JC                         , if x = 1

                         0                     0

                                                                          , if x < 1

where B(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian motion, JC() =                    eC(-s)d B(r )  is
                                                                               0
                                                                                      1
an Ornstein-Uhkenbeck (OU) process and we denote with JC() = JC() -                   0  JC  (s  )d  s

and B() = B() -  1  B(s  )d  s  the  demeaned  processes  of  J()         and  B()    respectively.
                 0

Theorem 2 demonstrates that the supremum functional of the IVX-Wald test weakly
convergence to a stochastic quadratic functional and does not have the same asymp-
totic behaviour as the corresponding IVX-Wald statistic which is proved to follow a 2p
distribution (see, KMS, Phillips and Lee (2013) and Phillips and Lee (2016)).

   24Note that, since we operate within the Skorokhod topology D (0, 1) we can apply standard weakly
convergence arguments.

                                     17
An important implication of Theorem 2, which consists our second contribution to the
limit theory of structural break tests in predictive regression models with nonstationary
predictors, is that we show that the dependence of the limiting distribution to the un-
known parameter of persistence takes different forms by restricting further the parameter
space of the exponent rate. Specifically, Theorem 2 demonstrates that when testing for a
structural break in predictive regression models, under the assumption that the predictors
are integrated or nearly integrated, then the limiting distribution of the test, weakly con-
verge to a nonstandard process, which verifies the corresponding result already mentioned
by Hansen (2000b)). On the other hand, when the predictors are stationary or mildly
stationary, then the test statistic weakly converges to the familiar squared tied-down
Bessel process as proved by Andrews (1993) in the case of linear regression models. The
latter implies that when we consider separately the special case for which x < 1, which
covers both the cases of mildly integrated regressors, i.e., x  (0, 1), and stationary
regressors, i.e., x = 0, then it can be proved that the limiting distribution of the sup
IVX-Wald test converges to the standard NBB result25. Corollary 1 below is a direct
implication of Theorem 2 and summarizes this finding.

Corollary 1. Under the assumptions and definitions given by Theorem 2, when x < 1
then the following asymptotic distribution holds

                    WIV  X (t )      sup  BB  p()BBp()     ,  (3.17)
                                              (1 - )
                                   [1,2]

where BBp(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian bridge.

Remark 2. The weakly convergence of the sup IVX-Wald test into a normalized squared

Brownian bridge, when the exponent rate is restricted such that x < 1, implies standard
statistical inference due to the known distribution. One rejects H0 for large values of the
sup IVX-Wald test based on a significance level  such that 0    1 and thus the

limit distribution can be used to derive associated critical values, denoted with c such

that P WIV X() > c  >0  with   lim P  WIV X() > c  = 1.

                              T 

Our findings presented by Theorem 2 verify the conjuncture of Hansen (2000b) who
argues that when testing for a structural break based on a sup-functional induces an
asymptotic non-pivotal distribution under the assumption of nonstationarity. However,
this seminal study has not examined in details certain forms of nonstationarity which can
occur and how these are manifested in the limit theory of the tests. In particular, within
our framework we demonstrate using local-to-unit root asymptotic arguments that the
nonstandard limiting distribution occurs when xt is properly modelled as a nonstationary
stochastic process, and specifically the NBB result no longer holds when xt is either a
nearly integrated or an integrated process.

   25Note that in the case of a known break-point we can easily prove a convergence to a 2p distribution
which is free of nuisance parameters and so conventional inference methods apply

                                      18
The proofs of both Theorem 2 and Corollary 1 can be found in Appendix A. Next, we
focus on designing test statistics for jointly testing against predictability and structural
break in predictive regression models. We define a joint Wald test based on the IVX
estimator under the assumption of an unknown break-point as below

Wjoint := sup WTIV X + WIV X (t) , for t1  t  t2.       (3.18)
                   t [t1 ,t2 ]

where the supremum functional applies only on the second component of the test above.
Then, the Corollary 2 below gives the related limit theory result.

Corollary 2. (i) If the conditions of Theorem 2 hold, then under the null hypothesis,
H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2 = 0 and no restriction on the exponent rate x , the large
sample theory of the test statistic specified by (3.18) has the following form

Wjoint  B(1)B(1) + sup N()M()-1N() ,                    (3.19)
                                             [1,2]

where B(.), N() and N() are defined in Theorem 2.
(ii) As a special case, when x < 1, it follows that

Wj o i nt    p2  +    sup     BBp()BBp()             ,  (3.20)
                                  (1 - )
                    [1,2   ]

where BBp(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian bridge and 2p denotes the 2 ran-
dom variable with p degrees of freedom. Furthermore, the two stochastic quantities of
the limiting distribution are assumed to be independent.

Remark 3. Notice that Corollary 2 demonstrates that when x < 1, the large sample
theory of the test statistic W is pivotal. Therefore, in this special case by having
a limiting distribution being free of nuisance parameters, asymptotic critical values for
testing the null hypothesis can be easily obtained. The particular test statistic provides
a methodology for testing for both predictability and structural break which is robust to
the persistence properties of regressors after replacing the OLS with an IVX estimator.

The main arguments we use for the proof of Corollary 2 is to consider the joint testing
hypothesis as a composite hypothesis based on the mutually exclusive parameter space,
and thus we construct the limit theory of this test based on the joint formulation of
the two separate testing hypotheses. By employing the asymptotic matrix moments
based on the IVX instrumentation we prove that the limiting distribution of the joint test
can be decomposed into two components. These two components are considered to be
independent random variables and therefore practically we could use the critical values of
the limiting distributions that corresponds to each of these stochastic quantities.

                    19
3.2.2 Joint Wald Tests under unstable model intercept

Notice that when a model intercept is included then under the null hypothesis, when
1 = 2, for example if we are testing whether H0 : 1 = 2, then the particular
hypothesis would be equivalent to testing the null hypothesis of no structural break.
However, in the case of an unstable model intercept, that is, 1 = 2, then testing the
null hypothesis H0 : 1 = 2 can result to a different asymptotic theory due to the break
in the model intercept. In this section, we consider the case that a potential structural
break occurs in both the intercept and the slope coefficient  of the predictive regression
model. The two proposed tests aim to test: (i) the null hypothesis of no break on model
intercepts while the slope coefficients remain at a fixed level; (ii) the null hypothesis of
no break on model intercepts while the slope coefficients are both equal to zero.

The proposed test statistic is expressed as below

                                                      -1

WIV X(t) = ~1(t) - ~2(t) 1(t) + 2(t)                            ~1(t) - ~2(t)  (3.21)

where the covariance estimators are computed as below

1 (t )       =  1   u1  (t  )u1  (t  )  +  z¯t Q1 (t )z¯t                      (3.22)
                t2                                                             (3.23)

2 (t )       =  (T  1   t)2 u2(t)u2(t)             +  z¯T -t Q2(t)z¯T -t
                    -

Then, the joint Wald test is expressed using the following form

Wjoint := WTIV X + WIV X (t) + WIV X(t) , for t1  t  t2.                       (3.24)

To distinguish between the standard Wald statistics in the case of known break-point

and the Wald type statistics that correspond to the unknown break-point we denote

with WIV X(t) = sup WIV X(t) and Wjoint (t) = sup Wjoint (t). Both of these test
t [t1 ,t2 ]                                        t [t1 ,t2 ]

statistics require to split the sample into subsamples of window size [t1, t2]  (1, T )

and estimate the joint Wald test based on the observations from each subsample. For

instance, the last two components of the joint test requires to estimate the Wald IVX

for the full sample plus the supremum statistics for the model intercept and the model

slope separately. Notice that the model intercept has different asymptotic properties, in

particular, convergence rate to the true population parameter when the IVX estimator

is used for the slope parameter. Therefore, we use the covariance estimators given by

(3.22) and (3.23) which is constructed based on the residuals from the fitted predictive

regression of each subsample while we add a bias correction based on the covariance

estimator of the slope coefficients since the estimator of the intercept is conditional on

the IVX estimator in the case we switch from the OLS to the IVX estimation procedure.

                                     20
Proposition 1. Consider the predictive regression model given by expressions (2.1)-(2.2).
If Assumption 1-4 hold and  is known to be unstable a priori, then under the null
hypothesis H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2 = , as T   the following limit result holds

WIV          X (t )                  sup     BB1()BB1()         (3.25)
                                                 (1 - )
                                   [1,2   ]

where BB1(.) is a one-dimensional standard Brownian bridge.

Remark 4. Notice that Proposition 1 provides an asymptotic result for a composite hy-
pothesis since we consider jointly testing for a structural break in the model intercept and
the slope coefficients while we test, that under the null hypothesis the slope coefficient
has a fixed parameter value . Additionally, we can investigate the limiting distribu-
tion of the joint Wald test when we assume that under the null hypothesis there is no
predictability.

Proposition 2. Consider the predictive regression model given by expressions (2.1)-(2.2).
If Assumption 1-4 hold and  is known to be unstable a priori, then under the null
hypothesis H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2 = 0, as T   the following limit results hold:
(i)

Wjoint (t)  B(1)B(1) + sup N()M()-1N()                          (3.26)
                                                  [1,2]

where N() = BB1(), N()  and M() =            (1 - ) 0 . The terms, N()
                                                  0 M()

and M() are defined in Theorem 2.

(ii) As a special case, when x  (0, 1), it holds that

Wjoint (t )    p2    +               sup     BBp+1()BBp+1   ()  (3.27)
                                                    (1 - )
                                   [1,2]

where BBp+1(.) is a (p + 1)-dimensional standard Brownian bridge, and 2p is a random
variable following a 2 distribution with p degrees of freedom.

Remark 5. Notice that, Proposition 2 shows that the limiting distribution of the joint
test for both predictability and structural break, when we consider simultaneously testing
whether there is a structural break to the model intercept and no predictability using the
set of regressors of the model, has an asymptotic distribution which takes a different
form when we consider different values of the parameter space of the exponent rate.

As we have seen by our extensive asymptotic theory analysis provided in this Section, the
asymptotic distribution of the Joint IVX-Wald tests can be affected by various scenar-
ios, such as the inclusion of model intercept in the predictive regression as well as the
parameter space of the exponent rate.

                                                      21
4 Monte-Carlo Simulation Study

In this section, we present a Monte Carlo simulation study in order to examine the
finite size properties of the proposed Wald-type statistics in terms of their empirical size
and power performance, under the null hypothesis of no joint parameter instability and
predictability. In practise, the degree of persistence in the time series of the regressors
is unknown. That is, both the coefficient of persistence ci as well as the exponent
rate x are both unknown parameters to the researcher. Moreover, we have proved
that the limiting distribution of the Wald-type statistics for detecting structural break in
predictive regression models depend on these unknown properties of the regressors for
certain parameter value restrictions on the coefficient of persistence. In particular when
the exponent rate of persistence has an exponential rate , then for both cases i.e., testing
for structural break or jointly testing for predictability and structural break we have a
nonstandard limiting distribution which depends on the corresponding stochastic integrals
which are functions of the unknown break-point. Now, in the case we known a prior that
the exponent rate equals to one, which means we are within the realm of near integrated
or LUR regressors then the tests converge to a standard NBB distribution which is easy
to tabulate critical values. Nevertheless, in any case in empirical applications critical
values can be obtained by either simulations or more advanced bootstrap methodologies.

The MC simulation study aims to shed light on the main theoretical results of the paper.
Therefore, to demonstrate the above theoretical result, under the null hypothesis of
no structural break, we can generate a DGP with no breaks in the coefficients of the
predictive regression. Then, constructing the sup-Wald test and using the Andrews'
critical values we can observe whether size distortions indeed occur in this scenario26.
Secondly, via Proposition 2 of the paper we propose an alternative approach to overcome
this problem. In particular, using an IV based sup-Wald test, which is constructed using
the IVX instrumentation, we prove that the limiting distribution of the statistic indeed
weakly converges to a NBB, which allow us to use the Andrews' critical values, avoiding
this way to simulate critical values which can be computational complex. Below, we
present the DGP, the test statistics as well as the size and power comparisons for the
proposed tests of our econometric framework.

   26Recall that under the assumption of persistent predictors, we prove via Proposition 1 of the paper that
when testing for parameter instability in the predictive regression the limiting distribution of the sup-Wald
statistic no longer follows a normalized squared brownian bridge, (NBB) for an unknown structural break.
In particular, when contacting inference or assessing the statistical validity of the sup-Wald statistic via a
MC experiment, using the corresponding critical values of the sup-Wald test proposed by Andrews (1993)
we can observe that leads to size distortions due to the non-NBB limiting distribution.

                                                      22
4.1 Experiment Design

We use the following data generating process (DGP) where yt is a scalar and xt is a
vector of LUR predictors (with the property of being highly persistent).

yt  =  01+-cT11xt-1                + 2xt-1    + ut                               (4.1)
xt  =        01                               t-1 +                              (4.2)
                                   0  c2   x         v  t,  x 0 = 0.
                                      T
                                   -

with t  {1, ..., T } and T = {100, 250, 500, 1000} for B = 5, 000 replications.

Furthermore, we consider the effect of different localizing coefficients of persistence
across the predictors. We use ci  {1, 5, 10, 20} for i = 1, 2, which cover various cases
of LUR regressors, with smaller values implying that we impose the assumption of higher
persistence and lower values implying that existence of mild persistence in the predictor.

The covariance matrix of the innovations et = (ut, v t)  N 03×1, ee we assume that
is parametrised with the following structure

                                      uv1     uv2       
       ee = uu2v1                     v21     v1v2
                                      v1v2                                       (4.3)
                 uv2
                                              v22

Clearly, we can see that the covariance matrix given by expression (4.3) allows to consider

various scenarios regarding the contemporaneous correlation of the regressors and the

dependent variables which has related economic interpretation. We use the following

predetermined covariance matrices

100                                           1                              
                                                            0.10 -0.29
ee = 0 1 0 , or ee =  0.10
                                                              1 -0.03

001                                           -0.29 -0.03 1

Under both the null and the alternative hypothesis, the predictive regression is generated
using the following econometric specification (using (B.2) and (4.3))

yt = 01 + 11xt-1 1{t  k } + 02 + 12xt-1 1{t > k } + ut                           (4.4)

where k = T  for some   (0, 1).

Additionally under the null hypothesis, of no parameter instability, we simulate the DGP

using the same vector of regression parameters before and after the breakpoint, such

as 1 = 2. Furthermore, under the alternative hypothesis of parameter instability, we
can generate a sequence of local alternatives by using a different vector of regression

                                      23
parameters before and after the breakpoint. Note that, since our framework consider a
single unknown structural break, the DGP is re-constructed for each window [1, 2] in
order to apply the supremum functional.

4.2 Test statistics

We assess the statistical validity in finite and large samples of the Wald based statistics
within our proposed framework, that is, the sup Wald-OLS test and the sup-Wald IVX
test. In particular, we are interested to verify any size distortions under the null hypothesis
of no structural change, when using the sup Wald-OLS test and we expect to observe
improvements in the empirical size of the sup Wald-IVX test. Moreover, we examine the
size and power performance of the two statistics across different degree of persistence as
well as the rate at which we allow the IVX instrumentation procedure to create a more
mildly integrated regressor (as given by the parameters cz and   0).

For the large sample properties of the test statistics a standard convergence result apply,
that is, WT (; )  W(; ) as T  . Furthermore, the testing hypothesis of interest
is a two-sided type hypothesis which is expressed as below

                     H0 : 1 = 2 vesus H1 : 1 = 2                                    (4.5)

The test statistics are computed via expressions (4.6) and (4.7), while standard regularity
and invariance principles holds (e.g, uniform convergence for the compact space   
such that (1, 2)   and   Rq).

4.2.1 Wald-OLS statistic

WTOLS()  =  1             ^1 - ^2  (X1 X1)-1 + (X2 X2)-1 -1                ^1 - ^2  (4.6)
            ^u2

4.2.2 Wald-IVX statistic

WTIVX()                   =   1    ^  IVX  -  ^2IVX         ^1IVX - ^I2VX           (4.7)
                              ^u2     1                                             (4.8)
                                                      Q-R1

where QR is defined as below

QR = (Z1 X1)-1 (Z1 Z1) (X1 Z1)-1 + (Z2 X2)-1 (Z2 Z2) (X2 Z2)-1

                                              24
In the case of a known break-point we can use the critical values proposed by Andrews
(1993) with an appopriate significance size such as  = 5% for both test statistics. Since
we consider an unknown break point, then the sup functional gives the statistic with the
maximum value after estimating a sequence of statistics over the interval   [1, 1-2],
and thus critical values need to be used due to the fact that the limiting distribution in
this case is not a standard 2-distribution. Furthermore, the data that we generate
from the DGP given by (B.1) and (B.2) only differ over the values of c1 and c2 and are
the same for different values of the sample size T . Thus, as the sample size increases
the degree of persistence of the endogenous regressors remain the same one (for both
predictors). Moreover, the increase in the sample size aims to reflect the properties
of finite versus large sample asymptotics for the Wald type statistics in testing for a
single unknown break-point in predictive regression models with persistent regressors.
Furthermore, in order to control for the existence of empirical size distortions when testing
for structural break via the Wald-IVX statistic, we use the bias corrected IVX estimators
as proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). The particular bias correction, implies
that we account for an overestimation effect when projecting the instrumental variable
towards the direction of the dependent variable (due to endogeneity).

The bias corrected IVX estimator has the following form

~IVX = Y Z - T ^ T (h, m) XZ -1                                         (4.9)

where the estimator of  is given by

              1                      m             h     T
              T                                    +
^T (h, m)  =                              1  -  m     1      u^t u^t-h  (4.10)

                                     h=0                 t =h+1

The above non-parametric estimator is known as Newey-West type estimator (see,
Newey and West (1987)) and allows to estimate the bias correction without impos-
ing additional parametric assumptions. Optimal bandwidth choices can be of the form
m = T 1/5, where , is a positive constant. The bias correction is applied to both ~1IVX
and ~2IVX.

4.3 Size Comparison

To conduct a size comparison of the test statistics, we examine the empirical rejection
rates of the sup-Wald OLS and sup-Wald IVX tests for detecting single structural change
with persistent predictors, under the null hypothesis of no structural change, that is,
H0 : 1 = 2 using a significance level  = 5% and compare using different critical
value approximations. In particular, we repeat the empirical-size experiment using the
asymptotic critical values from (i) Table 4 of Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012), (ii) Table

                                                      25
1 of Andrews (1993)), (iii) the bootstrap generated critical values within the MC step.
More specifically, to do this, we generate 5,000 datasets from DGP (B.1) and (B.2) for
various values of 0 and compute the frequency of rejecting the null hypothesis.

Design 1  0 := 0 = 0.25, 1 = 0.50

Design 2  0 := 0 = 1, 1 = 0.8, 2 = 1.2

Table 1 (for sup Wald-OLS) and Table 3 and ?? (for sup Wald-IVX), present the proba-
bilities of rejection of the two Wald-type statistics at the 5% nominal rate, under the null
hypothesis (for Design 1). In particular, we consider different values for the exponent
rate of the IVX parameter, such as   {0.75, 0.95} in order to investigate the varying
effect of the degree of persistent of the instrumental variable for detecting structural
change in predictive regressions with persistent regressors, as well as different localizing
coefficient of persistence, ci  {1, 5, 10, 20}. Comparing the empirical size results for
Table 1 versus Table 3 and ??, we can see that the sup Wald IVX produces values for the
empirical size quite close to the nominal size for critical value c = 13.42,  = 0.95 and
-0.5    0.5. The particular critical value is a closer representation to the -quantile
from the corresponding limiting distribution.

In Table 1 and Table 3 we present the empirical size under the null hypothesis for the
model with a single predictor and no-intercept. We can observe that size distortions
appear for larger values of correlation between the ut and vt and this is more severe for
high persistence regressors (i.e., low values of the coefficient of persistence). Moreover,
we also consider the case of explosive regressors, that is, ci < 0. Clearly, the empirical size
in this scenario has higher values since we use the critical value of Andrews (8.85) which
is not the corresponding critical value of the asymptotic distribution of the test statistic
for detecting structural break in the predictive regression model under the assumption
of explosive regressors. Notice also that in the case we have p > 1 and we use the sup
OLS-Wald statistic for testing for joint predictability and structural break then the size
distortions are much higher than in the case of p = 1 and this is due to the nonstandard
limiting distribution of the test statistic under the assumption of nonstationary regressors.

All main conclusions are in line with similar findings in the literature of predictive regression
models, such as larger size distortions appear as the correlation between u(t) and v(t)
increases, and this effect is more apparent in the case of persistent predictors (i.e.,
lower values of the persistence coefficient c). Moreover, we see that the Sup OLS-Wald
statistic with the standard asymptotics (Andrews) is clearly immune to persistence when
there is no correlation between u(t) and v(t). Furthermore, size distortions appear under
the existence of nonzero correlation between the error sequences ut and vt.

          26
In other words, when Cov (ut , vt) = 0, then under the assumption of nonstationary
predictors which is captured via the Local to unit root specification, then the limiting
distribution no longer follows the standard NBB result of Andrews. In fact in this case it
depends on the degree of persistence ci .
We observe that even though the simulated asymptotic values of the sup IVX-Wald test
for detecting a single structural break in the predictive regression model with no model
intercept is not quite close to the 8.85 cv that corresponds to the NBB result of Andrews,
we can verify that the asymptotic result does not depend on the nuisance parameter c.
Moreover, from the empirical simulations across different values of  we can see that the
simulated asymptotic critical values are quite close when observing at a specific value
of c. This is not surprising since the fully modified covariance estimator incorporated in
the construction of the covariance matrix for the IVX takes into account the dependence
structure of the regressors by applying a common long-run covariance structure. This
holds across different values of ci .

4.4 Illustrative Examples

We consider for instance the case of bivariate predictor persistence and examine the finite-
sample performance of the proposed tests. In this case, we use the c1 = 1 and c2 = 5
considering this way two predictors with different degree of persistence, however which
belongs to the same persistence class as defined in KMS. In particular, the quantile results
we obtain since are based on finite-sample approximations then they have slightly lower
value of the true asymptotic quantile that corresponds to the asymptotic distribution of
the test.

                                                      27
4.5 Power Comparison

To conduct a power comparison we compare the rejection rates under the alternative
hypothesis of structural change, H1 : 1 = 2. Specifically, under the alternative hypoth-
esis, we generate data using the predictive regression given by expression (3.1) and then
find statistical evidence against the null hypothesis by computing the two test statis-
tics. In particular, comparing the same value of the localizing coefficient across different
sample sizes, the power function is indeed monotonically increasing.

We consider a sequence of local alternatives of the form  = 0 + b/T and implement
the power function for breaks in both the model intercept and the coefficients of the
predictors. We introduce parameter instability via the following:

Design 1              0 := 0 = 1, 1 = 1.6, 2 = 0.6

Design 2              0 := 0 = 2, 1 = 0.8, 2 = 0.4

Table 4 and 5 presents the probabilities of rejection of the two Wald-type statistics at
the 5% nominal rate, under the alternative hypothesis. The proposed methodology is
recommended in cases in which the practitioner has some prior information regarding the
persistent properties of predictors included in the predictive regression. Moreover, for a
given value of cz (e.g., cz  1), then for a larger exponent rate ( = 0) in the IVX
instrument can lead to higher power in exprense of lower values for the empirical size,
while a smaller 0 can achieve better size corrections. The number of predictors can
be another source of distorted inferences and thus in high dimensional settings further
corrections might be needed to correct the size and power of the proposed tests.

The Monte Carlo experiments verify that our proposed IV based Wald test provides a
solution to the problem of possible size and power distortions when testing for parameter
instability in predictive regressions with persistent predictors. Implementation is therefore
straightforward via the use of standard statistical tables. In particular, once the magnitude
of the sup-Wald IVX statistic has been computed in the case of a known break-point it
then suffices to obtain the relevant critical values from Table 1 in Andrews (1993) (see
e.g., Pitarakis (2008)).

Remark 6. Note that simulating critical values as the results given by Table 1 of Andrews
(1993), can be done with other numerical approximation methods. Further studies among
others include the papers of Estrella (2003) and Anatolyev and Kosenok (2012). More-
over, Hansen (1997) proposes a methodology to obtain simulated p-values for stability
tests in linear regression models, which can be used for the empirical size of the Wald-OLS
statistic in our framework.

                      28
                     Table 1: Empirical size with nominal level  = 5%.

                                                  sup-Wald OLS

                                                           c=1

  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5           -0.3 0                   0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0804     0.0736          0.0704       0.0672 0.0556             0.0540          0.0512    0.0664      0.0700
250       0.0968     0.0812          0.0700       0.0628 0.0564             0.0608          0.0696    0.0764      0.0904
500       0.0924     0.0812          0.0720       0.0644 0.0608             0.0668          0.0744    0.0916      0.1044
1000      0.1060     0.0824          0.0788       0.0716 0.0684             0.0668          0.0760    0.0860      0.1032

  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5               c=5                  0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0588     0.0564          0.0592          -0.3 0                 0.0480          0.0500    0.0552      0.0560
250       0.0740     0.0608          0.0596       0.0548 0.0492             0.0504          0.0568    0.0692      0.0744
500       0.0860     0.0784          0.0696       0.0548 0.0516             0.0572          0.0632    0.0680      0.0848
1000      0.0908     0.0816          0.0732       0.0648 0.0564             0.0596          0.0620    0.0724      0.0864
                                                  0.0708 0.0636
  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5                                    0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0448     0.0524          0.0508              c = 10             0.0448          0.0480    0.0516      0.0492
250       0.0572     0.0540          0.0528          -0.3 0                 0.0472          0.0548    0.0608      0.0604
500       0.0788     0.0768          0.0676       0.0488 0.0444             0.0592          0.0592    0.0648      0.0736
1000      0.0796     0.0768          0.0704       0.0488 0.0472             0.0528          0.0552    0.0652      0.0704
                                                  0.0604 0.0544
  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5        0.0620 0.0568               0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0380     0.0416          0.0440                                 0.0416          0.0440    0.0440      0.0388
250       0.0560     0.0476          0.0480              c = 20             0.0460          0.0496    0.0480      0.0484
500       0.0620     0.0592          0.0600          -0.3 0                 0.0504          0.0564    0.0596      0.0648
1000      0.0676     0.0656          0.0608       0.0432 0.0476             0.0520          0.0548    0.0576      0.0572
                                                  0.0408 0.0436
                                                  0.0560 0.0512
                                                  0.0548 0.0496

Table 1 presents finite-sample empirical sizes for the sup Wald-OLS test, with nominal level

 = 5% for B = 5, 000 replications. The predictive regression model under the null hypothesis,

H0  :  1  =  2,  is  given  by,  yt  =  0.25xt-1  +  ut ,  xt  =  (1  -  c  )xt-1  +  vt ,  with  ee  =  1  
                                                                         T                                     .

                                                                                                            1

                                                           29
                     Table 2: Empirical size with nominal level  = 5%.

                                                  sup-Wald OLS

                                                     c = -1

  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5           -0.3 0                   0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0692     0.0636          0.0656       0.0600 0.0584             0.0604          0.0584    0.0616      0.0616
250       0.0724     0.0616          0.0596       0.0660 0.0584             0.0636          0.0640    0.0668      0.0748
500       0.0804     0.0680          0.0664       0.0604 0.0612             0.0628          0.0720    0.0740      0.0868
1000      0.0728     0.0636          0.0700       0.0680 0.0636             0.0644          0.0680    0.0764      0.0768

  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5              c = -5                0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.0660     0.0672          0.0732          -0.3 0                 0.0732          0.0732    0.0696      0.0656
250       0.0700     0.0756          0.0804       0.0740 0.0664             0.0820          0.0812    0.0820      0.0816
500       0.0692     0.0660          0.0752       0.0832 0.0836             0.0856          0.0836    0.0772      0.0764
1000      0.0804     0.0880          0.0916       0.0784 0.0792             0.0828          0.0864    0.0748      0.0708
                                                  0.0896 0.0864
  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5                                    0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.1124     0.1084          0.1060            c = -10              0.1056          0.1104    0.1176      0.1160
250       0.1264     0.1396          0.1384          -0.3 0                 0.1244          0.1276    0.1304      0.1368
500       0.1220     0.1224          0.1260       0.1072 0.1020             0.1280          0.1288    0.1376      0.1432
1000      0.1528     0.1468          0.1424       0.1372 0.1244             0.1272          0.1316    0.1384      0.1400
                                                  0.1260 0.1240
  T        -0.9         -0.7          -0.5        0.1340 0.1308               0.3             0.5       0.7         0.9
100       0.1576     0.1500          0.1464                                 0.1532          0.1584    0.1632      0.1704
250       0.2104     0.2036          0.1988            c = -20              0.1976          0.1956    0.2016      0.1928
500       0.2144     0.2144          0.2040          -0.3 0                 0.2176          0.2200    0.2224      0.2460
1000      0.2520     0.2552          0.2368       0.1532 0.1564             0.2320          0.2336    0.2360      0.2528
                                                  0.2004 0.1908
                                                  0.2024 0.2040
                                                  0.2376 0.2284

Table 2 presents finite-sample empirical sizes for the sup Wald-OLS test, with nominal level

 = 5% for B = 5, 000 replications. The predictive regression model under the null hypothesis,

H0  :  1  =  2,  is  given  by,  yt  =  0.25xt-1  +  ut ,  xt  =  (1  -  c  )xt-1  +  vt ,  with  ee  =  1  
                                                                         T                                     .

                                                                                                            1

                                                           30
OLD TABLE (to update with the ones after bootstrapping)

                          Table 3: Empirical size with nominal level  = 5%.

                                                sup Wald-IVX statistic

                                         c = 1 (cz = 1,  = 0.75, c = 13.42)

  T     -0.9                 -0.7 -0.5 -0.3                 0        0.3 0.5                 0.7     0.9
100    0.1672                                                                              0.1106  0.1726
250    0.1336             0.1070 0.0718 0.0480 0.0368 0.0496 0.0710                        0.0838  0.1354
500    0.1316                                                                              0.0772  0.1226
1000   0.1076             0.0878 0.0486 0.0324 0.0232 0.0322 0.0506                        0.0668  0.1044
                          0.0808 0.0504 0.0306 0.0206 0.0282 0.0462
  T     -0.9                                                                                 0.7     0.9
100    0.1134             0.0644 0.0412 0.0264 0.0200 0.0260 0.0398                        0.0850  0.1210
250    0.0998                                                                              0.0666  0.0986
500    0.0944                            c = 5 (cz = 1,  = 0.75, c = 13.42)                0.0628  0.0916
1000   0.0752                                                                              0.0522  0.0768
                             -0.7 -0.5 -0.3                 0        0.3 0.5

                          0.0804 0.0580 0.0426 0.0350 0.0446 0.0596
                          0.0662 0.0456 0.0348 0.0248 0.0326 0.0452

                          0.0592 0.0410 0.0250 0.0210 0.0282 0.0448
                          0.0488 0.0318 0.0236 0.0190 0.0250 0.0364

                                         c = 1 (cz = 1,  = 0.75, c = 12)

  T     -0.9               -0.7          -0.5 -0.3          0        0.3 0.5                 0.7     0.9
100    0.2386             0.1610                                                           0.1612  0.2482
250    0.2004             0.1336         0.1108 0.0768 0.0632 0.0814 0.1138                0.1338  0.2042
500    0.1938             0.1280                                                           0.1232  0.1900
1000   0.1644             0.1048         0.0816 0.0538 0.0390 0.0558 0.0822                0.1048  0.1664

  T     -0.9               -0.7          0.0828 0.0538 0.0360 0.0536 0.0792                  0.7     0.9
100    0.1722             0.1234                                                           0.1332  0.1818
250    0.1588             0.1094         0.0672 0.0448 0.0356 0.0454 0.0686                0.1080  0.1548
500    0.1476             0.0984                                                           0.1008  0.1422
1000   0.1190             0.0828         c = 5 (cz = 1,  = 0.75, c = 12)                   0.0898  0.1276

                                         -0.5 -0.3          0        0.3 0.5

                                         0.0936 0.0704 0.0568 0.0752 0.0966

                                         0.0714 0.0548 0.0458 0.0544 0.0766

                                         0.0716 0.0506 0.0366 0.0494 0.0708

                                         0.0578 0.0428 0.0358 0.0456 0.0630

Table 3 presents finite-sample sizes for the sup Wald-IVX test, with nominal size  = 5%.

The predictive regression model under the null hypothesis is given by yt = 0.25 + 0.5xt-1 + ut,

xt  =  (1 -  c1  )xt  -1  +  vt ,  with  ee  =  0.25  uv    ,=  uv   ,  as  given  above.  Furthermore,  for
             T                                  uv    0.75      u v

the IVX estimation step, we use an IVX persistence parameter   {0.75, 0.95} and the localizing

coefficient is set to cz = 1. The number of replications is B = 5, 000.

                                                      31
5 Empirical Application

In this section we present an empirical application aiming to shed light on the literature of
stock return predictability. Identifying periods of predictability has important implications
in various aspects of finance. Related modern reviews of these aspects are presented by
Kostakis et al. (2018) and Chinco et al. (2019), among others. However, despite the
extensive research of the field, the findings are still rather mixed (Kasparis et al., 2015)
(see, Welch and Goyal (2008) for a full discussion). For instance, aspects such as the
chosen sample period or the selected predictors can give different conclusions. Addition-
ally, parameter instability due to certain economic events can also affect the reliability of
predictability tests. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to develop robust testing
methodologies for inferring predictability under conditions such as parameter instability or
the presence of nonstationary regressors. Using the predictive regression model studied
in this paper27 our primary focus is to examine the robustness of the proposed tests.

5.1 Data Description

We focus on examining the presence of predictability for monthly US stock market excess
returns over the period 1990-2019 using the set of variables considered in Welch and Goyal
(2008)28 which capture economic and financial conditions for the US economy.

Predictant The dependent variable is the monthly equity premium (excess return) of
the US stock market based on the S&P500 index. We construct the excess return as in
Kasparis et al. (2015), that is, the difference between the total rate of return and the
risk-free rate for the same sample period. As a proxy of the US stock market return,
we use the value-weighted S&P500 total stock market return including dividends. The
risk-free rate is the 3-month T-bill rate obtained from the database of FRED29.

   27Alternative model specifications can be considered; for instance a model which considers expected
returns in relation to macroeconomic conditions and forecasting uncertainty. A first move towards this
direction is presented by Atanasov et al. (2020) who examine consumption fluctuations and expected
returns with respect to the predictability literature. More specifically, the authors indeed find statistical
evidence of predictability at the one-quarter horizon using the IVX testing approach of KMS.

   28The dataset can be retrieved from Amit Goyal's website at http://www.hec.unil.ch/agoyal/.
Detailed descriptions of variables can be found in the Online Appendix of Welch and Goyal (2008).

   29Time series of macroeconomic variables, such as the US inflation rate and the T-bill rate can be
found at https://fred.stlouisfed.org/. Notice also that the proxy of equity premium and the
other financial variables we consider in this paper, are commonly used in the predictability literature, see
Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012), Kasparis et al. (2015),Kostakis et al. (2015) and Kostakis et al. (2018).

                                                      32
Predictors The predictor variables we consider include: dividend-payout ratio (d/e),
long-term yield (lty), dividend yield spread (dy), dividend-price-ratio (d/p), T-bill rate
(tbl), earnings-price-ratio (e/p), book-to-market ratio (b/m), default yield spread (dfs),
net equity expansion (ntis), term spread (tms) and inflation rate (inf).

5.2 Predictability Tests

To begin with, we apply the simple predictability test on the full sample for the period
1946-2019 using as predictant the S&P500 Equity Premium. However, in this paper
we take a slightly different approach than the literature. In particular, we focus on
the subsample spanning the period 1990Q1 to 2019Q4, and consider monthly sampling
frequency. Our first goal is to examine the stock return predictability of this subsample,
that is, to identify the financial variables which are individually statistical significant as
well as to identify for evidence of joint statistical significance. Furthermore, our second
goal is to repeat the same exercise using the proposed joint test of predictability and
parameter instability and compare the results we obtain. The chosen subsample includes
the period of the 2008 financial crisis, so it is natural to assume that certain predictors
might exhibit structural break around that economic event. Therefore, this is a suitable
sample to assess the statistical validity of the proposed methodology for the case of a
single structural break. Certain limitations of our approach are on sight, however these
do not invalidate our findings. In particular, we do not consider the existence of multiple
structural breaks neither we consider sample splitting techniques which can affect the
power of the tests especially when using an out-of-sample forecasting scheme.
Firstly, summarizing our findings is Table C1 which presents predictability tests based on
both the classical least squares estimator and the IVX estimator. Notice that for these set
of tests we consider the regressors on their original form in order to preserve the degree
of persistence and have comparability between the two estimators under examination.
Table C2 presents structural break tests for the regressors. In this case the traditional
structural break tests are implemented under the assumption of stationary time series,
by taking the first difference of the regressors before fitting the AR(1) models.
Secondly, we examine the short-horizon predictability via the proposed joint predictability
and structural break Wald statistics.

                                                      33
6 Conclusion

In this paper, we have extensively examined the asymptotic theory of tests for Joint
predictability and parameter instability under the assumption of nonstationary regressors.
We compare our results with previous seminal work in the fields of both structural break
testing in linear regressions as well as predictability testing in predictive regression models.
We find some interesting results not previously presented in the literature. Firstly, using
the OLS estimator for the parameters of the predictive regression model we show that
the limiting distribution of the Wald statistic for testing for a single structural break
has a nonstandard limiting distribution which depends on the unknown coefficient of
persistence. Secondly, by employing the IVX estimator proposed in the literature as a
robust estimator which filters out the abstract degree of persistence in regressors, we
have proved that the limiting distribution of the Joint tests takes different forms which
weakly converges to a functional of a Brownian bridge in some instances while converges
to a nonstandard limiting distribution which depends on the coefficient of persistence
when regressors are assume to be highly persistent.

Conducting inference, such as structural break testing, on the regression coefficient of
the predictive regression model with multiple highly persistent regressors can lead to a
nonstandard limiting distribution. The proposed testing methodology ensures that the
limiting distribution of the structural break tests is free of any nuisance parameters, such
as the unknown localizing coefficient of persistence. Moreover, we consider "pure" struc-
tural change as it is defined by Andrews (1993), in the sense that the entire parameter
vector is subject to structural change under the alternative hypothesis. The asymptotic
distribution of the IV based Wald test is found to be given by the supremum of the
normalized squared Brownian Bridge (NBB). Thus, the exact limiting distribution of the
IV based Wald test allows to determine critical values similar to the case of the linear
regression model, without further simulations and additional computational cost. This
holds in the case of mildly integrated or integrated regressors, while in the case of nonsta-
tionary regressors further investigation is needed to determine exact critical values since
the limiting distribution has a dependence on the nuisance coefficient of persistence.

The developed asymptotic theory for the sup-Wald IVX tests under various degrees of
persistence we consider in this paper, indicate that the asymptotic behaviour of the tests
when the supremum functional is included, is different from the corresponding limit the-
ory in the case of only linear restrictions to the parameters of the predictive regression.
Nevertheless, the robustness of the IVX instrumentation provides a way to determine an
analytic form of the asymptotic distribution for different levels of persistence, a feature
often seen in time series data. This feature appears in various empirical finance appli-
cations in which the available information set for current or future economic conditions
with many times persistent properties and existence of parameter instability.

                                                      34
References

Amihud, Y. and Hurvich, C. M. (2004). Predictive regressions: A reduced-bias estimation
  method. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, pages 813­841.

Anatolyev, S. and Kosenok, G. (2012). Another numerical method of finding critical
  values for the andrews stability test. Econometric Theory, pages 239­246.

Andrews, D. W. (1991). Heteroskedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance
  matrix estimation. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 817­858.

Andrews, D. W. (1993). Tests for parameter instability and structural change with
  unknown change point. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages
  821­856.

Atanasov, V., Møller, S. V., and Priestley, R. (2020). Consumption fluctuations and
  expected returns. The Journal of Finance, 75(3):1677­1713.

Bai, J. and Perron, P. (1998). Estimating and testing linear models with multiple struc-
  tural changes. Econometrica, pages 47­78.

Bai, J. and Perron, P. (2003). Computation and analysis of multiple structural change
  models. Journal of applied econometrics, 18(1):1­22.

Boldea, O., Cornea-Madeira, A., and Hall, A. R. (2019). Bootstrapping structural change
  tests. Journal of Econometrics, 213(2):359­397.

Cai, Z., Wang, Y., and Wang, Y. (2015). Testing instability in a predictive regression
  model with nonstationary regressors. Econometric Theory, 31(5):953.

Campbell, J. Y. and Yogo, M. (2006). Efficient tests of stock return predictability.
  Journal of financial economics, 81(1):27­60.

Cavanagh, C. L., Elliott, G., and Stock, J. H. (1995). Inference in models with nearly
  integrated regressors. Econometric theory, 11(5):1131­1147.

Chinco, A. M., Clark-Joseph, A. D., and Ye, M. (2019). Sparse signals in the cross-
  section of returns. The Journal of Finance, 74.1(1):449­491.

Chow, G. C. (1960). Tests of equality between sets of coefficients in two linear regres-
  sions. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 591­605.

Chu, C.-S. J., Hornik, K., and Kuan, C.-M. (1995). The moving-estimates test for
  parameter stability. Econometric Theory, 11(4):699­720.

Chu, C.-S. J., Stinchcombe, M., and White, H. (1996). Monitoring structural change.
  Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1045­1065.

                                                      35
Davidson, J. and Monticini, A. (2010). Tests for cointegration with structural breaks
  based on subsamples. Computational statistics & data analysis, 54(11):2498­2511.

Demetrescu, M., Georgiev, I., Rodrigues, P. M., and Taylor, A. R. (2020). Testing for
  episodic predictability in stock returns. Journal of Econometrics.

Elliott, G. (2011). A control function approach for testing the usefulness of trending
  variables in forecast models and linear regression. Journal of econometrics, 164(1):79­
  91.

Estrella, A. (2003). Critical values and p values of bessel process distributions: computa-
  tion and application to structural break tests. Econometric Theory, pages 1128­1143.

Farmer, L., Schmidt, L., and Timmermann, A. (2019). Pockets of predictability. Available
  at SSRN 3152386.

Georgiev, I., Harvey, D. I., Leybourne, S. J., and Taylor, A. R. (2018). Testing for param-
  eter instability in predictive regression models. Journal of Econometrics, 204(1):101­
  118.

Georgiev, I., Harvey, D. I., Leybourne, S. J., and Taylor, A. R. (2019). A bootstrap
  stationarity test for predictive regression invalidity. Journal of Business & Economic
  Statistics, 37(3):528­541.

Gonzalo, J. and Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2012). Regime-specific predictability in predictive re-
  gressions. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 30(2):229­241.

Gonzalo, J. and Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2017). Inferring the predictability induced by a persistent
  regressor in a predictive threshold model. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics,
  35(2):202­217.

Gungor, S. and Luger, R. (2020). Small-sample tests for stock return predictability with
  possibly non-stationary regressors and garch-type effects. Journal of Econometrics.

Hansen, B. E. (1997). Approximate asymptotic p values for structuras-change tests.
  Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 15(1):60­67.

Hansen, B. E. (2000a). Sample splitting and threshold estimation. Econometrica,
  68(3):575­603.

Hansen, B. E. (2000b). Testing for structural change in conditional models. Journal of
  Econometrics, 97(1):93­115.

Hawkins, D. (1987). A test for a change point in a parametric model based on a maximal
  wald-type statistic. Sankhy¯a: The Indian Journal of Statistics, Series A, pages 368­
  376.

                                                      36
Inoue, A., Jin, L., and Rossi, B. (2017). Rolling window selection for out-of-sample
  forecasting with time-varying parameters. Journal of Econometrics, 196(1):55­67.

Jansson, M. and Moreira, M. J. (2006). Optimal inference in regression models with
  nearly integrated regressors. Econometrica, 74(3):681­714.

Kasparis, I., Andreou, E., and Phillips, P. C. (2015). Nonparametric predictive regression.
  Journal of Econometrics, 185(2):468­494.

Kendall, M. G. (1954). Note on bias in the estimation of autocorrelation. Biometrika,
  41(3-4):403­404.

Kostakis, A., Magdalinos, T., and Stamatogiannis, M. P. (2015). Robust econometric
  inference for stock return predictability. The Review of Financial Studies, 28(5):1506­
  1553.

Kostakis, A., Magdalinos, T., and Stamatogiannis, M. P. (2018). Taking stock of
  long-horizon predictability tests: Are factor returns predictable? Available at SSRN
  3284149.

Magdalinos, T. (2020). Least squares and ivx limit theory in systems of predictive
  regressions with garch innovations. Econometric Theory (forthcoming).

Magdalinos, T. and Phillips, P. C. (2009). Limit theory for cointegrated systems with
  moderately integrated and moderately explosive regressors. Econometric Theory,
  25(2):482­526.

Marriott, F. and Pope, J. (1954). Bias in the estimation of autocorrelations. Biometrika,
  41(3/4):390­402.

Newey, W. and West, K. (1987). A simple, positive semi-definite, heteroskedasticity and
  autocorrelation consistent covariance matrix. Econometrica, 55:703­708.

Page, E. S. (1954). Continuous inspection schemes. Biometrika, 41(1/2):100­115.

Pang, T., Du, L., and Chong, T. T.-L. (2020). Estimating multiple breaks in nonsta-
  tionary autoregressive models. Journal of Econometrics.

Paye, B. S. and Timmermann, A. (2006). Instability of return prediction models. Journal
  of Empirical Finance, 13(3):274­315.

Pesaran, M. H. and Timmermann, A. (1995). Predictability of stock returns: Robustness
  and economic significance. The Journal of Finance, 50(4):1201­1228.

Phillips, P. C. (1987). Time series regression with a unit root. Econometrica: Journal
  of the Econometric Society, pages 277­301.

                                                      37
Phillips, P. C. (1988). Regression theory for near-integrated time series. Econometrica:
  Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1021­1043.

Phillips, P. C. and Durlauf, S. N. (1986). Multiple time series regression with integrated
  processes. The Review of Economic Studies, 53(4):473­495.

Phillips, P. C. and Lee, J. H. (2013). Predictive regression under various degrees of
  persistence and robust long-horizon regression. Journal of Econometrics, 177(2):250­
  264.

Phillips, P. C. and Lee, J. H. (2016). Robust econometric inference with mixed integrated
  and mildly explosive regressors. Journal of Econometrics, 192(2):433­450.

Phillips, P. C. and Magdalinos, T. (2009). Econometric inference in the vicinity of unity.
  Singapore Management University, CoFie Working Paper, 7.

Phillips, P. C. and Solo, V. (1992). Asymptotics for linear processes. The Annals of
  Statistics, pages 971­1001.

Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2008). Comment on: threshold autoregressions with a unit root. Econo-
  metrica, 76(5):1207­1217.

Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2017). A simple approach for diagnosing instabilities in predictive re-
  gressions. Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, 79(5):851­874.

Ploberger, W. and Krämer, W. (1990). The local power of the cusum and cusum of
  squares tests. Econometric Theory, 6(3):335­347.

Rossi, B. and Inoue, A. (2012). Out-of-sample forecast tests robust to the choice of
  window size. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 30(3):432­453.

Stambaugh, R. F. (1999). Predictive regressions. Journal of Financial Economics,
  54(3):375­421.

Vasilopoulos, K. and Pavlidis, E. (2019). Package ivx. robust econometric inference. R
  package version, 1(1).

Welch, I. and Goyal, A. (2008). A comprehensive look at the empirical performance of
  equity premium prediction. The Review of Financial Studies, 21(4):1455­1508.

White, H. (2001). Asymptotic theory for econometricians. Academic press.

Xu, K.-L. (2020). Testing for multiple-horizon predictability: Direct regression based
  versus implication based. The Review of Financial Studies, 33(9):4403­4443.

Yang, B., Long, W., Peng, L., and Cai, Z. (2020). Testing the predictability of us housing
  price index returns based on an ivx-ar model. Journal of the American Statistical
  Association, pages 1­22.

                                                      38
A Asymptotic Theory

In this Appendix we present the main mathematical derivations and proofs related to the
results reported in the main body. We begin by summarizing via Lemma 1 below the limit
theory results which can be found in Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Kostakis et al.
(2015). We introduce the shorthand notation     min(, ) to denote the minimum
operator, employed for the stochastic dominance of the convergence rates.

                                                                            

Lemma 1. Let Vxz :=              erC Vxx erCz d r , where Vxx :=              esC xx esC d s, and xx is

                            0                                            0
the long-run covariance of ut. Then, under the null hypothesis of no structural break in

the predictive regression model, the following asymptotic results hold:

(i) the sample covariance satisfies that

                                     1         T               ut - u¯T   U ()                   (A.1)
                                 T 1+x z
                                                    zt-1
                                            2
                                               t =1

where U (.) is a Brownian motion with variance u2V, where V is defined as

                                                                            , if x > z
                                                                            , if x = z
                                erCz xx erCz d r                            , if 0 < x < z
              V     =                                                       , if x = 0.          (A.2)
                            0

                              

                                erCz (CVxz + Cz Vxz C) erCz d r

                            0

                         E0                 e  r  C  d  r

                                 erC xx

                               x0,1x0 ,1

where x0,t =        (Ip  +  C)j  ut -j  is  the   corresponding  stationary   sequence  of  the  regressor
              j =0

vector xt when x = 0.

(ii) the sample second moment satisfies that

                              1         T                                                        (A.3)
                         T 1+x z
                                             zt-1 xt-1 - x¯T -1    ()

                                        t =1

where  () has a different asymptotic convergence result as below, depending on the
exponent rates x and z of the original regressor and instrumental regressor respectively.

                                                           39
                                                 
            ---CCCz-z-11-z 1
                                  xx      +       Bd B                          , if x > 1
                                  xx      +                                     , if x = 1
                                   x x    +    0                                , if x < x < 1
                                                                                , if x = x
                                                                                , if 0 < x < x
                                                                                , if x = 0.
                                                  JCd JC

                                               0

                                                

                                                  erC xx erC d r C

     ()  =  -E0CxV0e,x1zrxC0,1 xx              0                                                               (A.4)

                                          erC  d   r

where B(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian motion, JC() =                                   eC(-s)d B()       is
                                                                                              0
                                                                                                        1
an Ornstein-Uhkenbeck (OU) process and we denote with JC() = JC() -                                     0  JC  (s  )d  s

and B() = B() -  1  B(s     )d    s  the  demeaned              processes  of  J()    and     B()    respectively.
                 0

(iii) The weakly joint convergence result applies and the asymptotic terms given by ex-
 pressions in (i) and (ii) are stochastically independent.

Notice that for summarizing the above results we used that

              1             T                                     
            T 1+z
                                  zt-1zt-1 plim Vzz :=              erCz xx erCz d r                           (A.5)

                            t =1                                0

Moreover, we have the weakly convergence result from Phillips and Magdalinos (2009):

                            1T
                                      (zt-1  ut )  N            0, Vzz  uu                                     (A.6)
                    T 1+z
                            2     t =1

Expression (A.6) proves a mixed Gaussian limiting distribution. This, shows that the limit

distribution of T -(1+z)/2     T     (zt-1     ut )       is    Gaussian  with  mean      zero   and    covariance
                               t =1

matrix equal to the probability limit of T -(1+)/2                  T      (zt-1      ut  ),  which   is   equal   to
                                                                    t =1
                            
Vzz  uu, where Vzz :=       0     er  Cz  x x  er  Cz  d  r  .  Specifically, the above Mixed Gaussianity

convergence, is a powerful result within the IVX framework and ensures the robustness of

the methodology and the estimation procedure. The dependence of the covariance matrix

on the degree of persistence of the IVX instrumentation methodology, induces exactly

the Mixed Gaussianity. Similarly, the limit distribution of T -(1+z)/2                        T     xt-1  ut       
                                                                                              t =1
                                      
N  0, Vxx  uu , where Vxx :=          0   erC xx erC d r ,      is  proved      in  Lemma     3.3   of  PM.

                                                       40
Proof of Theorem 1.

Proof. We denote with xt = (1, xt) and with j = (j, j ) for j = 1, 2 the parameter
vector which is obtained via the OLS estimator. Then, under the null hypothesis of no
structural break, H0 : 1 = 2, against H1 : 1 = 2, we obtain the following expressions

                                       T                   -1       T

   1 - 0 =                                xt -1 xt -1 I1t              xt-1ut I1t
   2 - 0 =
                                   t =1                            t =1

                                       T                   -1       T

                                          xt -1 xt -1 I2t              xt-1ut I2t

                                   t =1                            t =1

with I1t and I2t the dummy time variables and 0 = (0, 0), the population value of the
parameter vector . Therefore, we have that

                                       T                   -1      T 

T 1 - 0 =                          1         xt -1 xt -1       1        xt-1ut
                                   T2                          T
                                       t =1                        t =1
                                                          -1
                                                xt-1xt-1             1   T 
                                   1         T                       T
                                   T2                                         xt-1ut
T  2 - 0                      =  

                                       t=T +1                            t =1

Then, the weakly convergence result for the estimator of 1 follows

                                                               -1    

T 1 - 0                                   Kc(r )Kc (r )d r            Kc (r )d Bu     (A.7)

                                   0                               0

Similarly, for the estimator of 2 we have the following weakly convergence result

                                       1                       -1    1

T 2 - 0                                   Kc(r )Kc (r )d r            Kc (r )d Bu     (A.8)

                                                                   

In order to simplify the expression of the Wald OLS statistic we denote with

                                                                      

Gc () := Kc (r )Kc (r )d r and Hc () := Kc (r )d Bu(r )                               (A.9)

                        0                                          0

which implies that due to the argument  in the expressions for Gc () and Hc ()

                           1                                          1

Gc (1) := Kc (r )Kc (r )d r and Hc (1) := Kc(r )d Bu(r )                              (A.10)

                        0                                          0

Notice that, for example we can deduce that

  1                             1                                

   Kc (r )Kc (r )d r =           Kc (r )Kc (r )d r -              Kc (r )Kc (r )d r := Gc (1) - Gc()

                              0                                0

                                                41
Thus, the statistical distance component of the sup Wald-OLS statistic is given by

T 1 - 2 = Gc ()-1Hc () - Gc (1) - Gc () -1 Hc (1) - Hc ()                                               (A.11)

Denote with X = [xtI1t xtI2t]  [X1 X2] then the convergence of the covariance matrix

Mc () := R (XX)-1 R =  X1 X1  -1     X2 X2 -1
                        T2            T2
                                 +

                                     -1                                           1                            -1

                              Kc (r )Kc (r )d r +                                    Kc (r )Kc (r )d r

                       0                                                        

                                                                            -1

              Gc ()-1 + Gc (1) - Gc ()

Recall that the expression for the Wald statistic is as below

WTOLS ()  =  1         1 - 2  R (XX)-1 R -1                    1 - 2                                    (A.12)
             u2

Therefore, we can now derive the limiting distribution of the sup OLS-Wald statistic in
the case of the multiple predictive regression with persistent predictors.

WOLS()  sup Gc ()-1Hc () - Gc (1) - Gc () -1 Hc (1) - Hc () 

                         [1,2]

                                                                                                        -1 -1

                           × Gc ()-1 + Gc (1) - Gc ()

× Gc ()-1Hc () - Gc (1) - Gc () -1 Hc (1) - Hc ()

By applying the related inverse matrix formula to Mc ()-1 we obtain that

                                                                                                          -1 -1

                Sc ()-1  Gc ()-1 + Gc (1) - Gc ()

                                                                                                                               -1

                            = Gc () - Gc () Gc () + Gc (1) - Gc() Gc ()
                            = Gc () - Gc ()Gc (1)-1Gc ()

Thus, we show that the limiting distribution of the sup OLS-Wald statistic is given by

WOLS()  sup WTOLS()  sup             Nc ()Mc ()-1Nc ()                                                  (A.13)

[1,2]                         [1,2]

with quantities Mc (), Nc (),Gc() and Hc () as defined by Proposition 1.

                              42
Proof of Theorem 2.

Proof. Let Y denote the vector with all demeaned values of yt and X be the matrix
collecting all demeaned values of xt-1, that is,

  Y = (y1 - y¯T , y2 - y¯T , ..., yT - y¯T ) and X = (x0 - x¯T -1, x1 - x¯T -1, ..., xT -1 - x¯T -1) .

Similarly, we use U to denote the corresponding demeaned ut vector. Furthermore, for
any 1  t  T , we define Xt to be a T × p matrix, whose first t rows are the same
as X while the rest are all zeros. Moreover, let Z = (z0, z1, ...zT -1) collect all the
IVX instruments, and Zt = (z0, ..., zt, 0, ...., 0) be the corresponding time-t truncated
matrix. Given these notations, we express the original predictive regression model as

                                 Y = X2 + Xt + U                                      (A.14)

where  := 2 - 1 measures the magnitude of structural break. Moreover, we denote
with t to the corresponding estimator which captures the break size associated with
the sample partition at time t. Therefore, given any particular t, testing for structural

break in the parameter vector  is equivalent to testing the null hypothesis t = 0.
Define with Mxz = Ip - X (ZX)-1 Z, which is idempotent and orthogonal to both X
and Z and allows to rewrite (A.14) in its canonical form30. Multiplying Mxz on both
sides of (A.14), we deduce that Mxz Y = Mxz Xtt + Mxz U . Now, using Mxz Zt as the
instrumental variables for Mxz Xt, we obtain an estimator for the parameter t given by

                     t = (Zt Mxz Xt )-1 Zt Mxz Y                                      (A.15)

Moreover, it holds that t = 2IV X - 1IV X. Thus, the limiting distribution is given by

t - t = (Zt Mxz Xt )-1 Zt Mxz U

                                       -1

= Zt Xt - Zt X (ZX)-1 ZXt                  Zt Uy - Zt Xt (ZX)-1 ZU

T                                T                                             -1 T                        -1

=  zt (xt - x¯T -1) -                  zt (xt - x¯T -1)  T                            zt (xt - x¯T -1)

                                                            zt (xt - x¯T -1)

  t =1                           t =1                    t =1                  t =1

                     T                                    T                                           
   T 
                                                             zt (xt - x¯T -1)  -1 T
×  zt (ut - u¯T ) - zt (xt - x¯T -1)
                                                         t =1                          zt (ut - u¯T )
  t =1               t =1
                                                                                    t =1

   30Notice that the reparametrization of the model to its canonical form allows to shift the coordinates
which transforms the model to its more general form within the exponential family.

                                                      43
Applying the asymptotic results given by Lemma 1 we obtain

T 1+x z                                                                          -1
           2
              t - t            () - ()(1)-1()                                          U() - ()(1)-1U(1)

Next, we focus on covariance estimators for Q1(t) = (Zt Xt)-1 (Zt Zt) (XtZt)-1 and the
corresponding one for Q2(t). By ignoring the second-order degree bias correction we
obtain:

                 T                              -1  T                            T                        -1

Q1(t) =                       zt (xt - x¯T -1)           zt zt                         (xt - x¯T -1) zt       (A.16)

                 t =1                               t =1                         t =1

which implies that

                              T 1+xz Q1(t)  ()-1 u2V ()-1                                                     (A.17)

Similarly,

                                                -1                                                                         -1
                                                                            T                             (xt - x¯T -1) zt
                           T                                                                           T
                              zt (xt - x¯T -1) 
Q2(t) =                                                                          zt zt 

              t=T +1                                  t=T +1                           t=T +1

                                                                                                              (A.18)

which implies that                                                                                            (A.19)
       T 1+xz Q2(t)  (1) - () -1 (1 - )u2V (1) - () -1

Combining all the above we obtain the following result for the Wb(t) test statistic

                                                                                 -1

Wb(t) = 2IV X(t) - 1IV X(t) Q1(t) + Q2(t)                                              2IV X(t) - 1IV X (t)

                 T 1+x z                                                                                      -1
                            2
              =                2IV X (t) - 1IV X (t)                             × T 1+xz Q1(t) + Q2(t)

              ×  T 1+x z       2IV X (t) - 1IV X (t)                                                          (A.20)
                            2

which implies the following weakly convergence result

                                                                                                          -1

WIV X(t)  U() - ()(1)-1U(1) () - ()(1)-1()

                                                                                                                                                                               -1

            × ()-1 y2V ()-1 + (1) - () -1 (1 - )y2V (1) - () -1

                                                                         -1                                   (A.21)

            × () - ()(1)-1() U() - ()(1)-1U(1)

                                                      44
To simplify the notation of expression (A.21), we denote with A = (), C = (1) and
 = u2V. Then, we have the following equivalent form of the IVX-Wald statistic

                                    -1

WIV X(t)  U() - AC-1U(1) A - AC-1A

                                                                                                -1                                           (A.22)

× A-1A-1 + (1 - ) C - A -1 C - A -1

             -1

× A - AC-1A           U() - AC-1U(1)

which can be written as below

                                                                     

  WIV X(t)  U() - AC-1U(1)

                                                                                                                         

                  ×  A - AC-1A A-1A-1 A - AC-1A

                                                                                                                                                              

                  + (1 - ) A - AC-1A (C - A)-1  (C - A)-1 A - AC-1A

× U() - AC-1U(1)

                                               

= U() - AC-1U(1)

                                                                                                                        -1

×  I - AC-1  I - AC-1  + (1 - ) AC-1  AC-1 

× U() - AC-1U(1) .

                                                                                                                                             (A.23)

Notice that since U(.) is known to be a Brownian motion with variance , the above
expression can be further simplified as following

                                                                                                                                             (A.24)

WIV X(t)  B() - AC-1B(1)

                                                                                                                                         -1

                ×  I - AC-1 I - AC-1  + (1 - ) AC-1 AC-1 

× B() - AC-1B(1) .

Substituting back to expression (A.24) the notation for A = (), C = (1) and
 = u2V, we obtain the expression below

                      45
                                                                                 

WIV X(t)  B() - ()(1)-1B(1)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      -1

                ×  Ip - ()(1)-1 Ip - ()(1)-1  + (1 - ) ()(1)-1 ()(1)-1 

                × B() - ()(1)-1B(1) .                             (A.25)
where B(.) is a standard Brownian motion.

Using the asymptotic results given by Lemma 1, we simplify expression ()(1)-1 to

                                              1         -1

  xx +                            Bd B     xx + Bd B        , if x > 1

                               0           0

R() := ()(1)-1 = Ipxx +                       1         -1

                                  JC d JC  xx + JCd JC      , if x = 1

                               0           0

                                                            , otherwise.
                                                                   (A.26)

Therefore, by denoting the Brownian functional above with N() = B()-R()B(1)

and M() =  (Ip - R()) (Ip - R()) + (1 - )R()R() , then we obtain

WIV X(t)  sup N()M()-1N()                                         (A.27)
                        [1,2]

Proof of Corollary 1 When x < 1, we have that R() = Ip and thus M() =
 (Ip - Ip) (Ip - Ip) + (1 - )Ip (Ip) = [(1 - )2 + (1 - )2] Ip = (1 - )Ip.

Hence, in this case, the limiting distribution in Theorem 2 will reduce to

WIV X(t)  sup                  B() - B(1)  B() - B(1)   .         (A.28)
                        [1,2]                (1 - )

Thus, the above proof demonstrates that when we have predictors generated via the LUR
specification with x < 1 and testing the joint null hypothesis of no structural break and
no predictability then the limiting distribution of the IVX Wald statistic converges to a
NBB similar to the result of Andrews (1993) in the case of linear regression models.

                               46
Proof of Corollary 2. (i). Using the above notations, it's straightforward to obtain that
under the null hypothesis 1 = 2 = 0, we obtain that

      WTIV X = IV X Q-R1IV X  U(1) (1)-1(1)-1 -1 U(1).                   (A.29)

Combining this result with Theorem 2, we can deduce that

Wjoint = WTIV X + WIV X (t )          (1)-1(1)-1               -1        (1)-1 U (1)       
                                                          0p×p                             
                        (1)-1 U (1)

          

      U() - ()(1)-1U(1)                    0p×p           p×p        U() - ()(1)-1U(1)

with

 :=  Ip - ()(1)-1  Ip - ()(1)-1  + (1 - ) Ip - ()(1)-1  Ip - ()(1)-1 

Therefore, we obtain that

Wjoint = WTIV X + WIV X (t )                    (1)-1          -1        (1)-1B(1)         
                                         (1)-1            0p×p                             
                        (1)-1B(1)     

          

      B() - ()(1)-1B(1)                    0p×p           p×p        B() - ()(1)-1B(1)

with

 :=  Ip - ()(1)-1 Ip - ()(1)-1  + (1 - ) Ip - ()(1)-1 Ip - ()(1)-1 

which shows that

      Wjoint = WTIV X + WIV X (t )               -1            B(1)  
                                       Ip  0p×p  
                              B(1)                                   

                

                  B() - R()B(1) 0p×p       M()            B() - R()B(1)

       B(1)B(1) + N()M()-1N()

Since the first component of the above decomposition is independent of , then by the
Continuous Mapping Theorem, we conclude that

Wjoint = sup WTIV X + WIV X(t)  B(1)B(1) + sup N()M()-1N() .
      [1,2]                                      [1,2]

                                       47
(ii). In case that x < 1, by Corollary 1 it holds that the second component of the
W test statistic reduces to a functional of a standard Brownian bridge B() - B(1).
Then, since both B(1) and B() - B(1) are Gaussian processes which implies that
Cov B(1), B() - B(1) =  -  = 0. Therefore, these two stochastic quantities are
independent of each other31. Hence, the proof of the statement follows.

Proof of Proposition 1. Under the null hypothesis, H0 : 1 = 2 and 1 = 2 = ,
there is no break in the model intercept. In this section we consider in more details the
estimator of the model intercept based on the IVX instrumentation before proving the
asymptotic distribution given by Proposition 1. In particular, we propose to estimate the
model intercept using the generated instrument instead of the predictor, we refer to this
estimate as IV Z and the econometric intuition is explained below.

Based on the IVX estimation procedure, the corresponding IVX estimate for the model
intercept is given by ^ = y¯T - IV Xx¯T -1. However, we notice that due to the presence
of the predictors, then the limit theory for the estimate of the model intercept will vary
with the degree of persistence of predictors. We can see this below

               ^IV X -                         T 1+x z       IV X -                         x  z
           T                   = T u¯T -                  2                  T x¯ -            2         ,        (A.30)
                                                                                                  T -1

where  u¯T  =  1  T     ut  .                                      and T 1+x z              -            are both Op(1),
               T  t =1            Notice that both T u¯T                                 2

while the order of convergence of the last term depends on the persistence level of

predictors. We have the following convergence rates

                                            
                                            Op    T -1/2
                               T                  T 1/2+x          , if x = 1
                                                  T 3/2            , if 0 < x < 1
                            t=1 xt-1 = OOpp                        , x > 1.                                       (A.31)

                                            x  z
We  can  observe  that  the       term      T x¯ -2          will  dominate  in             the   limit  in  the  case  that
                                                  T -1

x > (z + 1) /2 and vanish if the reverse holds. In the case that x = (z + 1) /2,

all three terms appear in the asymptotic distribution which will depend on an unknown

parameter . To simplify the asymptotic theory we need to derive we estimate the model

intercept based on the generated endogenous instrument, that is, IV Z = y¯T -IV Xz¯T -1,

where  z¯T -1  =    1   T         z~j  -1.  The advantage of the IVZ model estimate is that the
                  T -1  j =2

persistence level of the instrument zt is controlled by the choice of the tuning parameters

z and cz therefore the abstract degree of persistence is filtered out.

   31To validate the asymptotic independence of the two BM functionals, we can apply properties of the
BM and prove that the covariance of the two terms is zero, which ensures independence.

                                                      48
Moreover, the particular choice of the estimate for the model intercept works as a power
enhancement mechanism against nonzero  values, as seen below

                         ^IV Z -  = u¯T - IV X -  z¯T -1 +  (x¯T -1 - z¯T -1) ,                                               (A.32)

The order of the first term is Op T -1/2 . Moreover, we can show that the second term
is asymptotically dominated by the first term, while the third term does not converge
unless the parameter space for  is within the neighbourhood of zero. Therefore, power
against the presence of predictability when a model intercept is included in the model is
achieved when we control the convergence rate of the third term above.

Next, we show that the second term of (A.32) is asymptotically dominated by the first
term by expanding further the expression

                                                                                                          T
             T
                  IVX -        z¯T -1       T 1+x z       IVX -                 .  T ( ) - 1+   x  z         zt-1 .           (A.33)
                                                       2                                           2

                                                                                                      t =1

The first term above is Op(1) due to the convergence property of the IVX estimator
to the mixed Gaussian distribution as established by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). To

establish the order of the second term we consider the convergence rate of the term

     T     zt-1.  For   instance,    by  Lemma  A2           in  the     Online    Appendix           of  KMS       we  have  that
     t =1

                                            
                                            Op            T x 1
                                                                  2  +z        , if z < z

                                  T

                               t=1 zt-1 = Op                                                                                  (A.34)

                                                          T x    +   z         , if 0 < x < z .
                                                                     2

Hence, we have that the second term of (A.32) will be Op                                        T x   1+z    +1  . Since x  1 +
                                                                                                        2

z < 2, this implies that the order of the second term is op(1). Therefore, we prove that

the second term of ^IV Z -  is asymptotically dominated by the first term.

For the third term of (A.32) we aim to show that is asymptotically dominated by
the first term when  is small enough. Thus, we rewrite with T  (x¯T -1 - z¯T -1) =

  1         T     (xt-1  -  zt-1).   Using the representation formula of the instrument given by
    T       t =1

expression (23) of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009), we find an equivalent expression, that

is,    1          T     (xt-1  -  zt-1)  =  -  Cz  T      (  1  +z  )    T      t  -1,     where      t -1       =      t     RTt -j  xj  -1  .
         T        t =1                                       2           t =1                                           j =1

Hence, if we set for simplicity Cz = Ip indicating a common degree of persistence across

the instruments, we then obtain the following probability bound for this expression

                                                                                           T
                              T  (x¯T -1 - z¯T -1)
                                                                         T  -(  1  +z  )        t -1
                                                                                2

                                                                                          t =1

                                                                         T  -(  1  +z  )T     sup     t -1
                                                                                2

                                                                                           2t T

                                                                 49
                                       =          T  (  1  -z  )    sup     t -1
                                                        2

                                                                  2t T

                                                  T  (  1  -z  )  Op     T x      +z
                                                        2                      2

                                       =     Op            T x      +z   ,
                                                                 2

Notice that   the  above        result is justified due           to    the  1u+2nxifo,rmthebnoundTof    t-1 , which      is
shown to be   Op                 by PM. Thus, if  =               op    T-                             (x¯T -1 - z¯T -1)  =
                   T x      +z
                         2

op(1) and the third component of ~IV Z -  will also be asymptotically dominated.

Therefore, when  is a non-zero constant, this term will dominate, and this is the reason

we obtain non-zero local power under the alternative hypothesis of predictability.

Proof of Proposition 2.

For the proof of Proposition 2, we have already proved most of the required results.The

only step we need to additionally show is that the test statistics Wa(t) and Wb(t) are

asymptotically independent of each other. Notice that since the test statistic Wa(t)

is driven by  T r   ut      ,   while  the  test  statistic         Wb (t )       is  driven  by  T r   zt-1ut  .  These
              t =1                                                                                t =1

two partial sums (invariance principles) have a joint weakly convergence to two indepen-

dent Brownian motions, as shown by Proposition A1 in Phillips and Magdalinos (2009).

Hence, the asymptotic independence is guaranteed. Then, convergence of the test statis-

tic W(t) follows by an application of the continuous mapping theorem.

                                                           50
B Critical Values and Implementation

B.1 Critical Values

The correct use of critical values close to the true asymptotic distribution of the test
statistic under examination is crucial in Monte Carlo simulations. This allows to correctly
identify the existence of size distortions. Notice that for deciding whether to accept or
reject the null hypothesis, one can use already tabulated critical values, only in those
cases that the asymptotic distribution of the test statistic under consideration has an
approximate form to Brownian functional (such as NBB). Moreover, we apply bootstrap
methodologies (such as the fixed regressor bootstrap) to ensure that we obtain robust
performance of the empirical size and power of the proposed tests.

B.2 Software Implementation

The Monte Carlo simulation study of the paper was implemented via the Statistical Pack-
age R (Version 3.5.1). More specifically, to validate the code for testing for both pre-
dictability and structural break, using the supremum Wald type statistics we utilize both
the Matlab code of KMS as well as the IVX library written by Vasilopoulos and Pavlidis
(2019) which provide implementations of the IVX instrumentation procedure. Moreover,
to reduce the execution time we utilize parallel programming techniques as well as re-
lated R packages for this purpose, such as the Rcpp library and the Rccp Armadillo
linear algebra library. Then, the critical values and empirical size and power of the tests
were obtained by simulating the asymptotic distributions based on 10,000 Monte Carlo
replications using the Iridis4 High Performance Computing Facility of the University of
Southampton.

                                                      51
B.3 Bootstrap procedure

For robustness of the procedure we use a bootstrap algorithm in order to obtain cor-
responding critical values. The Algorithm for the bootstrapped critical values that we
follow in this paper is proposed by Xu (2020), even though we do not consider the long-
horizon predictability component of the particular procedure. We also consider the fixed
regressor bootstrap as described by Georgiev et al. (2018) and also in Hansen (2000b).

Algorithm 1. (to modify) Two-sided 100% Bootstrap Implied Test for H0 : R = r0
Consider the predictive regression with multiple predictors given by

                         yt = µy + xt-1 + uyt ,                            (B.1)
                         xt = µx + Rxt-1 + uxt ,                           (B.2)

where R is a k × k dimensional coefficient matrix and the error sequence ut = (uyt, ux t )
is (k × 1)-dimensional martingale difference sequence with variance-covariance matrix

                         Var(ut) =  =  y2   x y                            (B.3)
                                       x y  x x

Step 1. Estimation Step

          1.1. Run OLS regressions of (B.1) and (B.2) to obtain the OLS estimates of
                 the vector of coefficients µ^y , ^, µ^x, R^ and the sequence of residuals u^t =
                 (u^yt , u^x t ).

          1.2. Compute the Wald statistic WIM.

Step 2. Generate the bootstrap sample {yt, xt, t = 1, ..., n}.

          2.1. Generate ut = e^t et, where et is a random number generated from the standard
                 normal distribution. Write ut = uyt , uxt .

          2.2. Generate xt such that xt = µ^x +R^bc xt-1 +uxt , where R^bc is the bias-corrected
                 estimator of R, defined as below

                                                     k                      n

R^bc = R^ + ^ xx         Ik - R -1 + R Ik - R2 -1 +        j Ik - j R -1       x~t-1x~t-1 ,

                                                     j =1                  t =2

      where j s for j = 1, ..., k are k eigenvalues of R. We set x1 = x1.
2.3. Generate yt such that yt = µ^y + xt- 1^ + uyt . We set y1 = y1.
2.4. Repeat Steps 2.1 to 2.3 B times (e.g., B = 1000).

                         52
Step 3. For each bootstrap sample, calculate the bootstrap Wald statistic

                               n               
WIM = R^h - R^h  Rq  
                                  xt-1xt- 1  -1

                              t =2              qR R^h - R^h ,

          where ^h, q,  are computed like ^h, q,  except that the bootstrap sample
          {yt, xt} is replaced by the original sample {yt, xt}.

Step 4. Use the 100(1 - )% quantile WIM (1 - ) of WIM over B bootstrap replications
          as the critical value, that is, the hypothesis H0 is rejected at the significance level
           if WIM > WIM (1 - ).

B.4 Structural Break Tests

For the empirical application of the paper, we consider a set of additional structural
break tests as robustness checks. Moreover, the particular structural break tests can be
employed to identify the location of the break-point.

53
C Tables and Figures

C.1 Empirical Results

Table C1: Predictability Tests for the Equity Premium of univariate predictive regressions

Predictor         OLS  t HAC      R2 IVX WIVX supWOLS supWIVX

Panel A:         1946Q1 - 2019Q4

Dividend payout ratio 0.0056 0.3898 0.0003

Long-term yield  -0.0824 -1.5958 0.0032

Dividend yield   0.0150 1.9880 0.0047

Dividend-price-ratio 0.0142 1.8741 0.0042

T-bill rate      -0.1043 -2.1461 0.0060

Earnings-price-ratio 0.0115 1.2885 0.0028

Book-to-market ratio 0.0042 0.6590 0.0006

Default yield spread 0.0150 1.9880 0.0047

Net equity expansion -0.0501 -0.6149 0.0005

Term spread      0.1813 1.6834 0.0035

Inflation rate   -0.9075 -2.6520 0.0096

Panel B:         1990Q1 - 2019Q4

Dividend payout ratio 0.0028 0.1597 0.0001

Long-term yield  -0.0883 -0.8409 0.0017

Dividend yield   0.0354 1.6497 0.0102

Dividend-price-ratio 0.0351 1.6389 0.0101

T-bill rate      -0.0393 -0.3885 0.0005

Earnings-price-ratio 0.0173 0.8403 0.0041

Book-to-market ratio 0.0317 1.0439 0.0041

Default yield spread 0.5275 0.5506 0.0025

Net equity expansion 0.1188 0.9655 0.0037

Term spread      -0.0727 -0.4442 0.0005

Inflation rate   0.2005 0.2831 0.0003

Table C1 presents simple predictability tests of the null hypothesis  = 0 and model estimates based on
the predictive regression with a single predictor given by yt =  + xt-1 + ut , applied to all individual
predictors. For the t-tests we consider a t-ratio based on the HAC (Newey-West) covariance estimator.
For all test statistics, we denote the rejection probabilities under the null hypothesis of no predictability at
significance levels 1%(), 5%(), and 10%(), respectively.

                              54
Table C2: Structural Break Tests for predictors

Panel A:               1990Q1 - 2019Q4
Predictor
Dividend payout ratio                   R2     BP Seq F-test  Max LR F-test                                      Exp LR F-test
Long-term yield                                    4.0061       49.4450                                            19.1970
Dividend yield            0.7477 0.5592            3.4002          2.3062                                            0.3676
Dividend-price-ratio                               3.5761          7.2497                                            1.4443
T-bill rate               0.0429 0.0046            3.6305          7.5262                                            1.5400
Earnings-price-ratio                               2.6279          5.4363                                            0.6033
Book-to-market ratio      0.0424 0.0001            1.6033       14.6679                                             4.6243
Default yield spread                               5.5639          3.1215                                            0.1470
Net equity expansion      0.0511 0.0008            3.1040          7.4651                                           1.9635
Term spread                                        0.9001          2.5452                                            0.2197
Inflation rate            0.4734 0.2169            1.6129          2.1243                                            0.2136
Predictor                                          3.2371          5.1032                                            0.9540
Dividend payout ratio     0.4385 0.1922
Long-term yield                                BP Seq F-test  Max LR F-test                                      Exp LR F-test
Dividend yield            -0.0439 0.0012         26.5211        26.5211                                             7.7360
Dividend-price-ratio                               1.7122          1.1633                                            0.1840
T-bill rate               0.4616 0.2131            3.4744          5.0447                                            1.1532
Earnings-price-ratio                               3.3367          5.0907                                            1.1876
Book-to-market ratio      0.2440 0.0596            1.3134          2.6698                                            0.4553
Default yield spread                               0.7989        7.5124                                              2.2289
Net equity expansion      0.1035 0.0107            2.7760          2.0446                                            0.2170
Term spread                                        1.6369          3.7191                                            0.7621
Inflation rate            -0.0979 0.0096           0.8209          1.6173                                            0.1941
                                                   1.3025          1.7316                                            0.2593
                       µ                R2         1.6209          2.5489                                            0.4311

                       -0.0001 0.7476 0.5592

                       -0.0002 0.0368 0.0014

                       -0.0007 0.0408 0.0017

                       -0.0007 0.0495 0.0024

                       -0.0001 0.4684 0.2197

                       -0.0003 0.4384 0.1922

                       -0.0006 -0.0447 0.0020

                       0.0000 0.4616 0.2131

                       0.0000 0.2440 0.0596

                       0.0000 0.1034 0.0107

                       0.0000 -0.0979 0.0097

Table C2 presents structural break tests and model estimates based on an AR(1) model applied to all
individual stationary predictors (based on first differences, i.e., x = xt - xt-1) for Panel A with sampling
period: 1990Q1 - 2019Q4. The covariance matrix for the AR(1) model is constructed using the HAC
(Newey-West) estimator. We consider the following structural break tests32 (i) Bai-Perron F-test based
on the sequential break detection algorithm of Bai and Perron (2003) with  = 0.15; (ii) Maximum LR
F-statistic with  = 0.15; and (iii) Exp LR F-statistic with  = 0.15. The last two structural break tests
represent the Andrews unknown breakpoint tests (see, Andrews (1993)). Notice also for the BP statistic
we assume a common data distribution across the blocks to ensure consistent estimation of the variance.
For all test statistics, we denote the rejection probabilities under the null hypothesis of no structural break
at significance levels 1%(), 5%(), and 10%(), respectively.

   32Further details regarding the specification and testing algorithms can be found in the User's Guide of
Eviews under the section titled "Stability Diagnostics", see https://www.eviews.com/help/

                                                      55
