                                                        Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

                                                    Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

                                                Journal of Econometrics

                                           journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jeconom

Residual-augmented IVX predictive regression

Matei Demetrescu a, Paulo M.M. Rodrigues b,

a Institute for Statistics and Econometrics, Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Olshausenstr. 40-60, D-24118 Kiel, Germany
b Banco de Portugal and Nova School of Business and Economics, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Portugal

article info                               abstract

Article history:                           Bias correction in predictive regressions is known to reduce the empirical size problems
Received 25 October 2017                   of OLS-based predictability tests with persistent predictors. This paper shows that bias
Received in revised form 27 February 2020  correction is also achieved in the context of the extended instrumental variable (IVX)
Accepted 26 November 2020                  predictability testing framework introduced by Kostakis et al. (2015). To be specific, new
Available online 21 December 2020          IVX-based statistics subject to a bias correction analogous to that proposed by Amihud
                                           and Hurvich (2004) are introduced. Four important contributions are provided: first,
JEL classification:                        we characterize the effects that bias-reduction adjustments have on the asymptotic
C12                                        distributions of the IVX test statistics in a general context allowing for short-run
C22                                        dynamics and heterogeneity; second, we discuss the validity of the procedure when
                                           predictors are stationary as well as near-integrated; third, we conduct an exhaustive
Keywords:                                  Monte Carlo analysis to investigate the small in- and out-of-sample properties of the
Predictability                             test procedures and their sensitivity to distinctive features that characterize predictive
Persistence                                regressions in practice, such as strong persistence, endogeneity, and non-Gaussian
Persistence change                         innovations; and fourth, we provide an analysis of real estate return and rent growth
Bias reduction                             predictability in 19 OECD countries.

                                                                                                              © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

1. Introduction

    Predictive regressions are widely used in economics and finance; see, e.g., Campbell (2008) and Phillips (2015) for
surveys. The variable of interest (typically stock returns) is regressed on lagged values of a predictor and the existence of
predictability assessed through the statistical significance of the resultant estimate of the corresponding slope parameter.
However, two important features of putative predictors need to be taken into consideration, namely: (i) the possibly
highly persistent autoregressive dynamics of predictors; and (ii) the strong contemporaneous correlation of the predictors'
innovations with those of the dependent variable. These features raise serious problems of endogeneity which can lead to
sizably biased estimates in finite samples and over-rejections of the null hypothesis of no predictability (Stambaugh, 1986;
Mankiw and Shapiro, 1986). Moreover, biased estimates of slope parameters typically lead to lower-quality forecasts.

    The usual asymptotic approximation employing the (standard) normal distribution performs particularly bad when
predictors are persistent, even though the largest autoregressive roots of typical predictor candidates are usually smaller
than one -- reason for which near-integrated asymptotics has been favored as an alternative framework for inference
(Elliott and Stock, 1994; Campbell and Yogo, 2006). In the context of near-integrated regressors, the limiting distribution
of the slope parameter estimator is not centered at zero, and this bias depends on the mean reversion parameter of the
near-integrated regressor.

   Correspondence to: Banco de Portugal, Economics and Research Department, Av. Almirante Reis, 71-6th Floor, 1150-012 Lisboa, Portugal.

      E-mail addresses: mdeme@stat-econ.uni-kiel.de (M. Demetrescu), pmrodrigues@bportugal.pt (P.M.M. Rodrigues).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jeconom.2020.11.007
0304-4076/© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

    The uncertainty of the exact degree of persistence of a given predictor, and thus which critical values to use for a
predictability test, pose an important challenge to empirical work. Moreover, standard estimation or pretests also fail
in this context (Cavanagh et al., 1995). Similarly, regression misspecification tests are difficult to conduct; e.g. Georgiev
et al. (2019) propose for this reason a fixed-regressor wild bootstrap implementation of a residual stationarity test. These
difficulties have led to the proposal of a number of alternative approaches; see for instance, Campbell and Yogo (2006),
Jansson and Moreira (2006), Maynard and Shimotsu (2009), Camponovo (2015), Breitung and Demetrescu (2015) and
references therein. The recently proposed extended instrumental variable estimation approach of Kostakis et al. (2015)
[denoted as IVX], motivated by the work of Magdalinos and Phillips (2009), is becoming increasingly popular in predictive
regressions, especially because the relevant t-statistic exhibits the same limiting distribution in both stationary and near-
integrated setups and is in this sense invariant to persistence; see, e.g., Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012), Phillips and Lee
(2013), Lee (2016) or Demetrescu et al. (2020b). The reasoning behind the approach consists in the generation of an
instrumental variable whose persistence can be controlled, and this is achieved by suitably filtering the actual predictor.

    To some extent, all methods considered in the predictive regression literature lose some power by having to robustify
against unknown persistence; however, as illustrated by Kostakis et al. (2015) the IVX methodology offers a good balance
between improved size control and power loss. Given however that the signal-to-noise ratio in predictive regressions is
quite low, one should strive to further improve this balance. For instance, Demetrescu (2014b) uses a simple variable
addition scheme to improve the convergence rates of IVX estimators (and thus the local power of the corresponding
t-tests) when the instrument used is close to stationarity. Yet, for instrument choices closer to near-integration a different
approach is required to improve the finite sample power of IVX-based tests without giving up size control.

    To this end, we take a closer look at the class of reduced-bias techniques proposed by Amihud and Hurvich (2004)
and extended by Amihud et al. (2009, 2010); see, inter alia, Bali (2008), Chun (2009), Avramov et al. (2013) and Johannes
et al. (2014) for recent empirical applications building on this approach. When compared to other available procedures,
the distinctive characteristic of these techniques is that they estimate the predictive slope coefficient and its standard
error in a suitably augmented predictive regression, so that the bias is reduced to a minimum and the size properties of
OLS-based predictability tests become stable. Moreover, bias reduction potentially benefits forecasts constructed using
the fitted predictive regressions, since, in the typical predictive regression case, bias in the estimated slope coefficients is
leveraged by multiplication with a predictor of uncertain persistence. Finally, we argue that bias reduction also has the
potential to contribute to power improvements.

    This paper discusses in more detail the large-sample behavior of a class of modified IVX statistics. Concretely, we
conduct IVX based estimation and inference in an augmented predictive regression context analogous to that of Amihud
and Hurvich (2004), and consider both stationary and near integrated predictors. Our main objectives are fourfold: (i) to
characterize the effects that our adjustments have on the asymptotic distribution of the IVX-statistics in a general context;
(ii) to establish the validity of the procedure when predictors are stationary as well as near-integrated; (iii) to provide an
exhaustive Monte Carlo analysis to investigate the small in- and out-of-sample properties of forecast and test procedures
under distinctive conditions that characterize predictive regressions in practice, such as strong persistence, endogeneity,
and non-Gaussian innovations, and to contrast them to the properties of the IVX approach proposed by Kostakis et al.
(2015); and (iv) to conduct an analysis of real estate returns and rent growth predictability for 19 OECD countries.

    In summary, we establish that the reduced-bias techniques analyzed in this paper are useful in the reduction of the
estimation bias in predictive regressions; are useful to reduce the forecast risk when augmented regressions are used
for one-step ahead forecasts, particularly with persistent predictors; and are useful to stabilize the empirical size of
predictability tests and, to some extent, to improve power in finite samples. For the analyzed data set, we find that the
rent-to-price ratio (in nominal terms) is a useful predictor for both future housing returns and rent growth for Australia,
Germany, Portugal, Spain and Japan.

    The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 describes the background of our analysis. Section 3
presents the large-sample theory under empirically relevant assumptions, including for instance time-varying uncondi-
tional variances. Section 4 discusses the finite sample performance, both in- and out-of-sample, of several procedures
used to test for predictability. Section 5 presents the empirical analysis of the predictive power of rent-to-price ratios to
predict returns and rent growth, and Section 6 summarizes and concludes the paper. A technical appendix collects the
proofs of the main theoretical statements put forward in the paper.

2. Predictive regression framework and tests

2.1. The model

     The    typical   predictive  model  characterizes   the  joint  dynamics  of  a  stochastic  process,  {yt   T     ,  and  its  posited  predictor,

      T -1                                                                                                       }t =2

{xt  }t =1  ,  in  a  two-equation  linear  system  as,

     yt =  + xt-1 + ut , t = 2, . . . , T                                                                                                     (1)

     xt = µx + et ,               et = et-1 + vt ;                                                                                            (2)

see, inter alia, Stambaugh (1999), Amihud and Hurvich (2004), and Campbell and Yogo (2006). The model, which
allows for empirically relevant features frequently found in economic and financial time series, is formalized next in
Assumptions 1­4.

                                                                     430
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                   Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

    Importantly, we consider two different theoretical frameworks that critically determine the stochastic properties of

the predictive variable. On the one hand, we consider stationary predictors, characterized by a fixed coefficient || < 1
in (2), and on the other, we allow for near-integration by considering  := 1 - cT -1, with c  0 and fixed. The main

objective of this setting is to acknowledge the uncertainty that researchers face regarding the stochastic properties of the

predictor, i.e., whether it is stable or near-integrated when ^ is close to, but strictly less than unity in finite samples. This
setting includes the extreme case of a unit-root when the local to unity parameter equals zero (c = 0). We also allow

for heterogeneity in the form of time-varying variances, different shapes of the distributions, and even changes in the

persistence of the regressor.

Assumption 1. The data are generated according to (1)­(2) with initial condition e1 bounded in probability.

Assumption 2. The errors ut and vt in (1) and (2), respectively, are given as

vt = a1vt-1 + · · · + ap-1vt-p+1 + t

ut =  t + t ,                          t  Z,

where the innovations (t , t ) are contemporaneously orthogonal white noise as indicated below.

Assumption 3. Let

(t ) (t t )
  t := t t

where (t , t ) is a heterogeneous independent sequence with unity covariance matrix and, for some  > 0, with
                                       (4t+  )       E (4t+).
uniformly  bounded  moments         E           and            Furthermore,  let  t    :=    (t/T )  and  t  :=       (t/T ),  where  · (·)  are

piecewise Lipschitz continuous functions on (-, 1], bounded and bounded away from zero.

Assumption 4. The autoregressive parameter  in (2) is either (i) fixed when || < 1, or (ii) time-varying near unity,
 := 1 - ct /T with ct := c (t/T ) and c (·) is piecewise Lipschitz on [0, 1].

   The AR(p - 1) structure of vt in Assumption 2 is taken as an approximation to more general data generating processes
[DGP] s. In theory, this would require letting p   at suitable rates as T  ; dealing with such asymptotics is beyond

the scope of this paper, but relevant results can be found, for instance, in Chang and Park (2002) .

Assumption 3 acknowledges that time series may exhibit permanent volatility changes, which is an important stylized

feature of many financial series; see, inter alia, Guidolin and Timmermann (2006), Teräsvirta and Zhao (2011) and Amado
and Teräsvirta (2013). Since, such forms of nonstationarity typically invalidate the usual standard errors,1 we resort

to heteroskedasticity robust [HC] standard errors (also known as Eicker­White standard errors) to account for this

feature. The use of Eicker­White standard errors is also recommended by Kostakis et al. (2015) to deal with conditional
heteroskedasticity.2 Kostakis et al. (2015) discuss however a specific GARCH case imposing strict stationarity, whereas

we relax the i.i.d. assumption by replacing stationarity with smoothly varying volatility. (The case with both conditional

and unconditional heteroskedasticity of generic form in the innovations has only recently been dealt with by Demetrescu

et al., 2020a.)

Finally, Assumption 4 characterizes the persistence of the putative predictor. The flexible near-integrated DGP resulting

from Assumption 4(ii) is motivated by the high, yet uncertain persistence of many predictor series; Assumption 4(i)

additionally allows for the possibility of stationary predictors. Since persistence need not always be constant in practice,

in particular when close to the unit root, we allow for time variation in persistence in the near integrated case.

Considering (1)­(2) with (ut , vt ) serially independent Gaussian distributed innovations (a1 = · · · = ap-1 = 0 in

Assumption  3)   with  mean  zero      and  covariance  matrix    :=  ( u2   uv   )    and     in    (2)  fixed  and  ||  <    1,  Stambaugh
                                                                        uv   v2
                                                                                    ,

                                                                                                          ()

(1986, 1999) shows that, when uv = 0, the exact OLS bias of ^ computed from (1) is E ^ -  =  E (^ - ), with ^

denoting the OLS estimate of  and  := uv/v2 is the slope coefficient in a regression of ut on vt . Since ^ is known to
be downward biased in small-samples, and (ut , vt ) are typically strongly negatively contemporaneously correlated, the
autoregressive OLS bias feeds into the small-sample distribution of ^ causing over-rejections of the null hypothesis of no

predictability, H0 :  = 0. Nelson and Kim (1993) argue that in such a context the OLS estimators and corresponding

standard errors are substantially biased and lead to unreliable inference.

To correct for the OLS bias of ^ , Amihud and Hurvich (2004) [AH] propose, in the context of no autocorrelation in

the innovations (p = 1 in our setup), a simple statistical device that builds upon the OLS estimates obtained from a

  1 This is especially the case when dealing with (near-) integrated regressors; see, e.g., Cavaliere (2004) and Cavaliere et al. (2010).
  2 In fact, examining the proofs we give in the Appendix, it can be seen that one may relax the independence assumption to allow for weakly
dependent martingale difference sequences at the cost of additional moment restrictions; however, we do not pursue this topic here and leave it
for future work.

                                                                                                        431
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

predictive regression which is augmented with estimates of vt , the innovations to the predictor in (2); see also Lewellen

(2004). Interestingly, such an approach had been proposed much earlier in the cointegration testing context by Phillips
(1991), albeit in a case where the exact degree of persistence is known. In specific, regression (1) can be written under
Assumption 2 as

        yt =  + xt-1 +  vt + t                                                                                                                                    (3)

with  still capturing the extent of ex ante predictability in the system. However, regression (3) is infeasible since vt is

not observable. Nevertheless, it is worth focusing on (3) given the interesting properties of the resulting estimates and

test statistics: this type of augmentation implies that (i) the infeasible estimator of (,  ) in (3) is exactly unbiased; and
(ii) the null distribution of the t-statistic on ^ converges asymptotically to a standard normal distribution irrespectively
of the persistence of xt and the degree of contemporaneous correlation of (ut , vt ).

   Given the nice properties just described it may be tempting to use some proxy of vt to make this regression feasible,

however the asymptotic properties of the infeasible test computed from (3) do not automatically extend to the feasible

counterpart resulting from the direct use of OLS residuals from (2), say v^t ; see Rodrigues and Rubia (2011), Cai and Wang

(2014) and Demetrescu (2014a), for further details.

   The distinctive feature of the AH procedure is that it uses a bias-adjusted estimate of vt to reduce the bias of ^ . Thus,

the resulting feasible regression is,

        yµt = xtµ-1 +  v^t + t,                                                                                                                                   (4)

where t denote the errors of the feasible regression. For the case where the putative predictor has no short run dynamics,
v^t := xt - m^ - ^ xt-1, with m^ denoting an estimated intercept in the autoregression and ^  a finite-sample bias-corrected
OLS estimate of  in (2). To be specific, AH suggest the computation of this estimate as ^  = ^ +(1+3^ )/T +3(1+3^ /T 2),

which is obtained by an iterative correction. This reduces noncentrality of the limiting distribution of the OLS t-statistic,
but the distribution remains nonstandard in the near-integrated case (Assumption 4ii). The procedure also requires a
correction of the standard errors which is not easily generalized to higher-order dynamics (the kind that we impose in
Assumption 3); see Amihud et al. (2009, 2010).

2.2. The bias-reduced IVX approach

    We therefore take a different route. The procedure we propose builds on the IVX framework of Kostakis et al.

(2015). IVX centers on the construction of instrumental variables from the potential predictors, which ensures instrument

relevance while controlling for persistence. In particular, for the implementation of the original IVX approach in the

context of (1) and (2), Kostakis et al. use zt                    :=   t -2     jxt-j       =      (1  -  L)-1          xt   as instrument for xt , where L denotes

                                                                           j=0                                 +
the conventional lag operator, and  := 1 - aT -, with 0 <   1, and a  0 and fixed, and is chosen so that zt is by

construction only mildly integrated when the predictor xt is (nearly) integrated.

   The original IVX estimator of  (^ ivx), computed from (1) using zt as instrument, has a slower convergence rate than

the conventional OLS estimator under near integration; concretely, the IVX convergence rate is T 1/2+/2; cf. Kostakis et al.

(2015). At the same time, the IVX estimator is mixed Gaussian in the limit irrespectively of the degree of endogeneity

implied by  , leading to standard inference in t and Wald tests. Moreover, under low persistence (Assumption 4i), it is

asymptotically equivalent to the OLS procedure -- which makes IVX easy to use in practice.

    Letting    ¨·  denote    demeaned          quantities,  e.g.  y¨t  =  yt  -  y¯  =  yt  -    1     T           ys,  the  IV   estimator  is,
                                                                                               T -1
                                                                                                           s=2

        ^ ivx      T         zt -1 y¨ t     ,                                                                                                                     (5)

               :=      t =2

                   T         zt -1 x¨ t -1

                       t =2

                               ()                   (T                    )-1     ^u  (T           zt2-1  )1/2
                             se ^ ivx                            zt -1 x¨ t -1
and  its  standard  error                      :=          t =2                              t =2               .  To   improve   finite-sample   behavior,       Kostakis

et al. (2015) suggest the use of OLS residuals u^ t from (1) (whose consistency properties do not depend on the persistence
properties of the instrument zt ) for the computation of ^u2, do not demean the instrument zt (which is invariant to
                                                                                                                     (T               )
µx  by  construction),       and  correct      the  standard      errors      by  subtracting          from     ^u2                      a  term  involving  the  long-run
                                                                                                                            t =2  zt2-1

covariance of ut and vt .

    For the implementation of the bias-reduced IVX approach in the setup given by (1) and (2), and Assumptions 1­

4, the starting point is how to deal with short-run dynamics in the increments of xt , since this has implications as

to which residuals to use for augmentation of the IVX testing procedure. We let the innovations vt correlate with ut
contemporaneously. Note that, because of the serial correlation of vt , unrestricted correlation between ut and vt would
not have excluded cases where vt-1 might have predicted ut -- while ut is an unpredictable error term. The augmentation

approach relies on the decomposition of the shocks to the predictive regression as the sum of two orthogonal components;

should vt be one of them, this induces serial correlation in ut , which is not a plausible feature of the null hypothesis of

no predictability.

    As we shall see, the key feature of IVX estimation in this setup is that, since the IVX approach uses an instrument that is

less persistent than the original predictor, it turns out that the residual augmentation approach is essentially insensitive to

                                                                                      432
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                            Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

whether the residuals used for augmentation are bias-corrected or not, at least in the limit; see Section 3 for details. This
is important, since it simplifies the analysis considerably and allows for easy generalizations to higher order dynamics in
the predictor as will be shown below.

Remark 2.1. It may be surprising that, although using OLS residuals does not work for the OLS estimation of the predictive

regression, simple augmentation will work for IVX. The reason is that, the estimation noise (^t - t ) does not affect

the IVX estimator in the limit, given the lower convergence rate of IVX compared to the OLS estimator (which would

have been asymptotically affected). Moreover, the local power is the same as if the true t were used in the augmented
regression: this reduces regression noise whenever  = 0, leading by construction to a larger drift term in the distribution
under the local alternative  := bT -(1/2+/2); see the discussion following Theorem 3.3 for details. This may not increase
the convergence rate, but considering the typically high correlation of the innovations ut and t (induced by  = 0),

power gains in finite samples are to be expected. See also Im and Schmidt (2008) for positive power effects of residual

augmentation. We examine the finite-sample power in the Monte Carlo analysis in Section 4. 

    The implementation of the residual-augmented IVX approach in the general framework described by Assumption 1­4
consists of the IV estimation of the feasible regression,

    y¨t = x¨t-1 +  ^t + t                                                                                                     (6)

where all directly observed variables are demeaned and the residuals ^t are computed from an autoregressive model of

order p for the predictor xt . E.g. if demeaning xt prior to fitting the autoregression we would have,

                       p                             p

    ^t  =  x¨t                        =   ¨t      -  (^j        -  j) x¨t-j,  t = p + 1, . . . , T ,
                 - ^ jx¨t-j

                       j=1                           j=1

with ^ j, j = 1, . . . , p, the OLS autoregressive coefficient estimates and j their probability limits. One may use some

information criteria in levels to determine the autoregressive order p (in Sections 4 and 5 we use Akaike's information
criteria [AIC]); note that conducting model selection in levels copes with both the stationary and the integrated cases.

Remark 2.2. The autoregression of xt in (2) includes an intercept (i.e., is equivalently computed with demeaned variables)

to account for a mean component, µx. The time series literature offers alternative ways of demeaning, say recursive mean

adjustment as in So and Shin (1999) or, particularly appealing in settings with persistent variables is the subtraction of

the initial condition (which is equivalent to local-to-unity GLS demeaning under persistence, see e.g. Elliott et al., 1996).

We shall also consider these alternatives in the following sections. However, alternative demeaning schemes for yt (and
correspondingly xt-1 in (6)) are not such a good idea; e.g. forward/recursive demeaning (as suggested by Westerlund et al.,
2017, in a panel context) eliminates the signal and leads to significant power losses; see Demetrescu and Hosseinkouchack

(2020). 

For simplicity of notation write (6) as

    y¨t = Xt-1 + t                                                                                                            (7)

where Xt-1 := (x¨t-1 ^t ) and  := (;  ). Moreover, define Zt-1 := (zt-1 ^t ), where zt-1 is an instrument for xt-1

constructed as suggested by Kostakis et al. (2015) and described above. Thus, given the just-identified nature of this
model the IV estimator of  is,

           (T                         )-1 T

                                                     Zt-1y¨t .

    ^ :=               Zt-1 Xt -1                                                                                             (8)

                 t =2                          t =2

Since xt-1 and ^t are orthogonal by construction, one may compute the residual-augmented estimator and test statistic

in two steps3:

1. OLS-regress y¨t on ^t and compute residuals, y~t = y¨t - ^ ^t , where ^ is the OLS slope coefficient, ^ :=
                   )-1
    (T           ^t2        T         ^t  y¨t  .

           t =2                 t =2

2.  IVX-regress           y~ t  on  x¨t-1,     leading    to  ~ ivx  :=  (T                    )-1   T         zt -1 y~ t  .
                                                                                      zt -1 x¨ t -1
                                                                                t =2                     t =2

    Under Assumptions 1­4 the standard errors need to take into account two specific features of the data. First, time

varying variances which bias the usual standard errors, even asymptotically; and second, while the estimation error

(^t - t ) has no asymptotic effect on the limiting distribution of ~ ivx in the near-integrated context, it does so when xt is

  3 In unreported simulations (available upon request), we find this 2-step procedure to perform better in finite samples than directly estimating
(6). The two versions are easily shown to be asymptotically equivalent, and we omit the details to save space.

                                                                                                        433
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                            Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

covariance stationary. Yet treating the two cases in a different manner is inconvenient since exact knowledge about which
is actually the relevant case is typically not available. Consequently, we derive heteroskedasticity-consistent standard

errors for the case where  is bounded away from unity, and show that these are also valid in the near integrated context.

In this way, we are able to use the same statistic with the same limiting distribution to cover both cases without having
to decide which is which -- analogously to the original IVX test of Kostakis et al. (2015).

    To be specific, the standard error (se) is, for both variants of the residual-augmented procedure,

                          (T               zt2-1 ~ t2     ^  2 Q^ T  )1/2

                                 t =p+1                +

         se (~ ivx)   :=          T                                                                                                                                                      (9)

                                      t =p+1      zt -1 x¨ t -1

where     the  finite-sample      correction           Q^ T  is  Q^ T    =    HzxHx-x1Hxx Hx-x1Hzx         with  Hxx  =       T           x¨ t -p  (x¨ t -p ) ,  Hzx  =      T           zt -1

                                                                                                                                  t =p+1                                         t =p+1

(x¨ t -p ) ,  Hxx  =  T           x¨ t -p  (x¨ t    )  ^t2,  and     x¨ t -p  :=  (x¨t-1, . . . , x¨t-p).  To  compute  the   Eicker­White-type                  standard          errors  in

                          t =p+1                  -p

(9) we make use of the OLS residuals computed from the residual-augmented predictive regression, ~t := y¨t - ~ olsx¨t-1 -

~^t , rather than IVX residuals due to the superconsistency properties of the former in the near-integrated context. The
t-statistic on ~ ivx to test the null hypothesis H0 :  = 0 in (6) is simply t~ivx := ~ ivx/se (~ ivx).4

Remark 2.3. The standard errors in (9) are in fact Eicker­White standard errors that would have been appropriate under

stationarity of xt , where the effect of estimating t impacts the asymptotic distribution of the modified IVX t-statistic. We

show in Section 3 that Q^T in (9) is dominated under near-integration so that the standard error is asymptotically equivalent
                                                                                                                                       )-1                                   )1/2
                                                                                                               (T             zt -1 x¨ t -1  (T                  zt2-1 ~ t2
to  the   one  implied    by  the  near-integrated                   framework,   which  is  simply                                                                                .  
                                                                                                                      t =p+1                        t =p+1

Remark 2.4. Interestingly, the correction term ^ 2QT bears some similarities in structure with the finite-sample correction

of the standard errors proposed by Kostakis et al. (2015) for the original IVX t and Wald statistics, with the difference

that ^ 2QT is only asymptotically negligible in the near-integrated case. 

Remark 2.5. A near-unit root in xt would allow for the use of residuals without the need for the finite sample correction
(see Remark 2.4), but the statistics fare better in finite samples if the correction is included (essentially because, in finite

samples, any || < 1 is "caught between" stationarity and integration). 

2.3. Extensions to multiple predictors

    The discussion so far has side-stepped a couple of aspects relevant for empirical work which we address in this section.
They are in fact straightforward extensions of the baseline case and we shall omit some of the technical details.

    It is often the case that several predictors are considered simultaneously. Thus, the resulting multiple predictive
regression framework is

         yt =  + xt-1 + ut                                                                                                                                                               (10)

where xt-1 follows a K -dimensional vector autoregressive data generating process of order p, such as,

                                                                                p-1                                                                                                      (11)

                                                         
         xt - µx = R(xt-1 - µx) + vt , and vt = Ajvt-j + t

                                                                                j=1

which is either stable or (near) integrated as before depending on the properties of the autoregressive coefficient matrix

R (vt is taken to be a stable autoregression in either case). There is endogeneity, possibly in all regressors, expressed as a

nonzero coefficient vector in the decomposition

         ut := t + t ,                                                                                                                                                                   (12)

and the shocks t and t are heterogeneous, serially independent obeying a multivariate version of Assumption 2.

    For implementation of the bias reduced IVX approach introduced in this paper in the multiple predictive regression

case consider (10)­(12) and either set up the feasible multiple regression

         y¨t = x¨t-1 + ^t + t                                                                                                                                                            (13)

or resort to the two-step version, where the vector of residuals ^t is computed from a vector autoregression of order p of

the predictors,

                                 p

                      
         ^t := x¨t - ^ jx¨t-j, t = p + 1, . . . , T ,

                            j=1

4 Note that one may resort to alternative HC variance estimators, e.g., with correction for degrees of freedom (HC1). The HC1 version is obtained

here  by  multiplying  the  estimated      variance    by    T    T   .
                                                                -p-3

                                                                                  434
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                             Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

with ^ j, j = 1, . . . , p, the matrix of OLS coefficient estimates in levels. Note that the use of AIC (or some other information

criteria) in levels, for determining the order p, is again recommended.

   For inference purposes note that the estimated covariance matrix of ~ ivx in this context is given by the familiar

"sandwich" formula,

       Cov^ (~ ivx) := B-T 1MT (BT-1)                                                                                                                                                     (14)

where  BT     :=  T         zt-1x¨t -1         and

                      t =2

                     T                                        [         (     T                   xµt- p,K  )  (T             xtµ-p,K xµt- p,K )-1]
                                                                           1
       MT :=             t =2  z  t -1   z     -1  ~t2  +                  T      t =2  z  t  -1                      t =p+1
                                            t

                                                                              [                                xµt-p,K xtµ- p,K )-1                                     ]
                                                              xµt-p,K xtµ- p,K ) 
                        (T                                                                    (T                                     (     T         xtµ-p,K            )
                                                                                                                                        1
                     ×         t =p+1          t t                                                   t =p+1                             T      t =2           z     -1
                                                                                                                                                                 t

with xtµ-p,K corresponding to the vector stacking all p lags of all K demeaned regressors, i.e., (xtµ-p,K ) = (x¨t-1,1, . . . , x¨t-1,K ,
x¨t-2,1, . . . , x¨t-2,K , . . . , x¨t-p,1, . . . , x¨t-p,K ).

   The limiting distribution of ~ ivx is normal in the stationary case and mixed normal in the near-integrated context; the

proofs are simple multivariate extensions of the results from the single-regressor case (see the following section) and will

therefore be omitted. More importantly, individual and joint significance tests have their usual standard normal and  2

limiting distributions irrespective of the persistence and heterogeneity of the DGP as long as the robust covariance matrix

estimator in (14) is used.

3. Asymptotic results

    In this section, we analyze the limiting distributional characteristics of the new augmented IVX tests. Note first that

the time-varying properties of the DGP, as stated in Assumptions 1­4, imply different behavior in the limit compared

to the stationary case. In this case, the partial sums of t and t converge weakly to time-transformed Brownian

motions (Cavaliere et al., 2010), i.e.

              [sT ]                                                     

        1            (t    )            s           (r     )  dW     (r )
                                                                        
                    t                       0                                 ,

         T    t =1                    

                                         s          (r )      dW     (r )

                                           0

were W and        WM(sa)re:=ind0sepen(rd)ednWt svt(arn)d;atrhdenW, tiehneesrupitraobcleyssneosrm(thaleiz"ecdlarsesgicraels"socrasceanisboenslyhorwecnovtoerceodnwvehregne     u and        are
constant). Let
                                                                                                                                                                              weakly      under

near integration to an Ornstein­Uhlenbeck type process driven by the diffusion M (s), i.e.,

                                      s        s
                      
       T -1/2x[sT ]                      e-     r  c (t )dt  dM   (r )  =:    X     (s)                                                                                                   (15)

                                   0

where         =  (   -  p-1             )-1        see,       e.g.,  Cavaliere      (2004)        for       the  case  with   constant     c.  Moreover,

                  1         j=1       aj ;

                                (                   1                   )

       T -1/2x¨[sT]   X (s) - X (r) dr =: X¨ (s) .                                                                                                                                        (16)

                                                        0

For weak persistence, i.e., || < 1 and fixed, we obtain a locally stationary xt-1, and the following results can be stated.

Theorem 3.1. Under Assumptions 1, 2, 3 and 4(i), we have, as T  , that

       T 1/2  (~ ivx  -    )     d       N     (0,  2)                                                                                                                                    (17)
                                                                                                                                                                                          (18)
                                

where

                  0   1    v2   (s)      2     (s)  ds     +      2  p     -1    p  1      v4     (s)  ds

       2      :=        0                                                             0

                                               [        1     v2  (s)     ]2
                                                0
                                                          0             ds

with p    :=      (0 . . . p-1)             and               :=  {|i-j|      }            ,  where    h       :=   bjbj+h with bj         the moving average coefficients of xt ,

                                                                                1i,jp                                   p

(1 - L)-1 (1 -        a1L - · · · - ap-1Lp-1)                        =           bjLj.     Also,  T 1/2se (~ ivx)               and,  under    the   null        hypothesis,  H0  :    =  0,

                                                                            j0

       t~ivx   d  N   (0,   1)  .                                                                                                                                                         (19)

              

                                                                                                       435
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                          Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

     The limit behavior changes under near-integration as shown in the following theorem.

Theorem 3.2. Under Assumptions 1, 2, 3 and 4(ii), we have, as T  , that

                                                                                                                                                        

        T  1/2+/2   (~ ivx       )                 0,                                      a  1     2    (s)  2   (s)  ds                                                                (20)
                                                                                                                                                        
                              -         MN                                                      0

                                                            22   (     (1)    X¨  (1)  -   1     X  (s)  dM   (s)     +   1    c  (s)  (X  (s))2    )2

                                                                  X                          0                              0                     ds

and

                                                                 (   1  2     (s)  2     (s)    )1/2
                                                                  
                                                                                              ds
        se (~ ivx)            (a      )1/2                          0
                                22
                                                                 1                               1                (s))2                                                                  (21)

                                             X  (1) X¨  (1)   -    0   X   (s)    dM   (s)  +      0  c  (s)  (X          ds

where a > 0 and   (0, 1) are fixed, 2 plays the role of the long-run variance and is defined in (15), X¨ (s) := X (s) -
1                                s        s
     X  (r )  dr ,  X (s)  :=                c(t)dt v   (r )  dWv   (r )   and,      2 (·)    and      2 (·)      are     the  variance      functions    of  vt  and  t ,      respectively.
  0                                0  e- r

Moreover, under the null hypothesis, H0 :  = 0,

        t~ivx  N (0, 1) .                                                                                                                                                                (22)

     The   proof    of   Theorem      3.2    establishes         that   QT     =   op (T 1+)        so   that     it  is  dominated        in  (9)  by  T           zt2-1 ~ t2  which    is  of

                                                                                                                                                            t =p+1
exact order Op (T 1+) (see the Appendix for details), and the effect of estimating the residuals on the standard errors is

negligible in the near-integrated case. Moreover, it can be seen from the proofs that, while the limiting distribution of

the residual-augmented IVX based estimator is mixed Gaussian, like the one of the original IVX statistic, the asymptotic

variance is different and in fact typically smaller; see Remark 3.1.

    The near-integrated case is also more interesting for evaluating the local power and for a comparison with the original
IVX.5 The power function of the residual augmented IVX is provided next.

Theorem 3.3. Under Assumptions 1, 2, 3 and 4(ii), we have for local alternatives  := bT -(1/2+/2), as T   that

                                                                                                                                       

                          ( 22 )1/2             X  (1)  X¨  (1)  -  1      X  (s)  dM    (s)  +     1    c  (s)  (X   (s))2    ds  ,   1 .
                N b                                                                                                                     
        t~ivx                                                         0                               0                                                                                  (23)
                     a
                                                                    (   1  2      (s)  2    (s)    )1/2
                                                                     
                                                                                                 ds
                                                                        0

Remark 3.1. Using the arguments in the proofs of Theorems 3.2 and 3.3, one may immediately derive the local power
of the original IVX based test under near-integration,

                                                                                                                                       

                          ( 22 )1/2             X  (1)  X¨  (1)  -  1      X  (s)  dM    (s)  +     1    c  (s)  (X   (s))2    ds  ,
                N b
        tivx                                                          0                               0                                1
                     a                                                                                                                  
                                                                    (   1                          )1/2
                                                                           2      (s)  u2   (s)
                                                                                                 ds
                                                                        0

where u2 = 2 +  22. For constant variances and no short-run dynamics, this collapses to the expression derived
                                                                                                                                                                  1
by   Breitung       and    Demetrescu        (2015).        Whenever              =  0,  we     have     that    u2(s)    >    2(s)    s,    and    therefore          2  (s)   u2  (s)  ds  >
                                                                                                                                                                    0
1
     2  (s)    2    (s)  ds,  implying      that   the  drift    term      of   the    residual-augmented                 IVX     statistic  is   larger  than    the  drift    term  of  the
  0
original statistic. This leads to increased power under local alternatives, at least in the limit. 

    While residual augmentation leads to some gains in terms of asymptotic efficiency under persistence, the augmentation
also has an effect on the finite sample bias of the IVX estimator. In fact, we may identify two mechanisms. On the one
hand, Demetrescu and Hosseinkouchack (2020) show that the original IVX t-statistic exhibits finite-sample noncentrality
of order O(T /2-1/2). This translates into a higher-order bias of the IVX estimator by virtue of multiplication with the

(positive) standard error. Now, unfeasible augmentation with t removes the correlation and reduces the standard error, so

the leading terms of the bias would be eliminated. On the other hand, feasible residual augmentation introduces additional
bias from the estimation of the autoregression. This can be seen in the proofs in the Appendix to be of the same magnitude
as the first bias component, O(T /2-1/2).

    Therefore, it is not clear which effect dominates; we provide simulation evidence in the following section. A summary
preview of our findings in Section 4 is as follows: If the residuals are computed in an autoregression with the usual
demeaning, there is no clear effect; but if resorting to alternative adjustment procedures in the autoregression (concretely,
subtracting the initial condition ­ akin to local GLS demeaning ­ or recursively demeaning (see e.g. Elliott et al., 1996,
and Shin and So, 2001), then the positive effect dominates and the bias of the slope coefficient estimator is reduced, in
addition to its standard error. This impacts practical applications in a twofold manner. First, reduced bias implies improved
forecasts; second, we find better size control for the tests based on less biased IVX estimators.

5 The local power in the stationary case is easily derived using standard arguments and we omit the details.
                                                                                                     436
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                            Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

4. Finite sample performance

4.1. Monte Carlo setup

    This section compares the finite sample performance of the original IVX test, which we denote as tivx, with the
residual augmented version computed with residuals from an autoregressive (AR) model for the predictor under different

demeaning schemes, t~iµvxi , i = 0, 1, 2, 3, where µ0, µ1, µ2, µ3 indicate the use of residuals from an AR model with no

demeaning; residuals from an OLS demeaned AR; residuals from a recursively demeaned AR; and residuals from an AR
in which the variables where demeaned by subtracting the initial condition, respectively.

   We generate yt and xt as in Eqs. (1) and (2) with p = 2, i.e.,

yt =  + xt-1 + ut , t = 2, . . . , T                                                                              (24)

xt = xt-1 + vt , vt = a1vt-1 + et                                                                                 (25)

with a1  {-0.5, 0.5} and et  iidN (0, 1). We focus on local alternatives of the form  = bT -1 for two sample sizes,

T = 200 and T = 500. To study the empirical size of the tests we set b = 0, and for the local power evaluation
b  {5, 10, 15, 25}. The persistence of the predictor is controlled by  := 1 - cT -1, with c  {0, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50}.

The correlation causing endogeneity is set to -0.95, which is not an uncommon value in practice; see, e.g., Campbell and

Yogo (2006)6; recall that smaller correlations imply smaller biases and better size control anyway.

The tivx test does not require specifying the lag length, while for t~ivx we choose p via Akaike's information criteria

(AIC). Both tivx and t~ivx are computed by     demeaning         the dependent variable and the regressor, but    not the instrument
                                                                 included for completeness) are invariant to the
(see Section 2 for details). Since all tests  (except t~iµvx0 ,                                                   intercept , we set

 = 0 without loss of generality.
We follow Kostakis et al. (2015) and choose a = -1 and  = 0.95 ( = 1+aT -) for the construction of the instruments

in both. Also, we use the corrected standard errors proposed by Kostakis et al. (2015, pp. 1514­1515) to compute the IVX

t ratio. To maintain comparability, we apply the exact same finite-sample correction for standard errors to the standard

errors of the augmented IVX test statistics   (additionally to the terms       involving QT   as previously discussed). Preliminary
simulations (available upon request) show                                      terms of size  with one correction term only so we
                                              that t~iµvx1 performs better in
do not include QT in the standard errors used to compute this statistic.

We employ the proposed standard errors in (9) for the computation of t~ivx, while, for the classical tivx, we use the HAC

estimator recommended by Kostakis et al. (2015, pp. 1514­1515) and required by Theorem 3.2.

For testing, the rejection frequencies of right-sided and two-sided tests are computed at the nominal 5% level based

on 10000 Monte Carlo replications, and all results are based on standard normal critical values.

4.2. Bias analysis

    Figs. 1­5 present the scaled estimation bias for the residual augmented IVX estimator computed from a predictive
regression augmented with residuals from an autoregressive model of the predictor with no demeaning (Fig. 1), usual
demeaning (Fig. 2), adjusted by subtracting the first observation (Fig. 3) and using recursive demeaning (Fig. 4), as well
as the scaled estimation bias of the IVX approach of Kostakis et al. (2015), (Fig. 5). To be specific, the plots refer to

T E(~ IVXµi - ), i = 0, 1, 2, 3, and T E(^ IVX - ).

    We observe in Fig. 5 that the original IVX estimator is biased in finite samples, with the magnitude decreasing only
slowly in T . Examining Figs. 1­4, it can be seen that in general the residual augmented IVX approach produces a less

biased estimate of  than the conventional IVX approach. This is particularly clear from Figs. 1, 3 and 4, which provide

the results for residuals computed from AR models with no mean corrected predictors, with predictors for which the
initial condition has been subtracted and with recursive demeaned predictors, respectively. In Fig. 2, we note that the

bias of the AR estimators in the autoregression of xt (which feeds into ^ IVXµ1 ) is large, although decreasing fast with

increasing T and c; this is not surprising since the bias of AR estimators is known to be relatively large for demeaned
persistent series. Clearly, the ``quality'' of the residuals used for augmentation makes a difference in finite samples, and

t~iµvx1 is not recommended for testing.

4.3. Forecast risk

    In this section we further evaluate the different approaches in a forecasting context where evaluation focuses on
minimizing risk. To be specific, we use the one-step-ahead expected squared forecast error suggested by Hansen (2010)
in a similar autoregressive context.

    To study the forecast performance of residual augmented IVX relative to the original IVX procedure, we generate in

a first experiment (Experiment 1) data from (24) and (25) with a1  {-0.5, 0, 0.5} and et  iidN (0, 1). With no loss of

  6 The efficient tests of Campbell and Yogo (2006) (denoted as CY ) and the residual augmented predictive regression based test of Amihud et al.
(2010) (denoted as AHW ) have also been analyzed and results can be found in the accompanying working paper.

                                                                                                        437
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues  Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Fig. 1. Bias of residual IVX (augmented regression with residuals from an autoregressive model with no demeaning) estimator of  -T = 200 (left)
and T = 500 (right).

Fig. 2. Bias of residual IVX (augmented regression with residuals from an OLS demeaned autoregressive model) estimator of  -T = 200 (left) and
T = 500 (right).

Fig. 3. Bias of residual IVX (augmented regression with residuals from an autoregressive model corrected for the first observation (xt - x1)) estimator
of  -T = 200 (left) and T = 500 (right).

generality we set  =  = 0 in (24) and consider T = 200 and T = 500. Regarding the persistence of the predictor we
use  := 1 - cT -1, with c  {0, 2.5, 5, 10, 20}. The innovations correlation is set to -0.95.

    To evaluate the out-of-sample prediction performances of the various approaches discussed above, we estimate the

predictive regression in (24) using T - 1 observations; for the computation of the finite sample forecast risk we take as

                                                                                                        438
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues  Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Fig. 4. Bias of residual IVX estimator (augmented regression with residuals from a recursively demeaned autoregressive model)  -T = 200 (left)
and T = 500 (right).

                                                Fig. 5. Bias of IVX estimator of  -T = 200 (left) and T = 500 (right).

discussed in Hansen (2010) the average of MSEµk = T (xT-1( - ^iµvxk ))2, k = 0, 1, 2, 3 and of MSEivx = T (xT-1( - ^ivx))2

across the 10000 Monte Carlo replications.7
    In Table 1 we report the results for the relative forecast risk of the different approaches when benchmarked against

the IVX approach. Specifically, this table reports the MSE ratios.
    Table 1 shows that as c decreases the forecast risk of the residual-augmented IVX relative to IVX decreases considerably,

particularly when no demeaning, recursive demeaning and subtraction of initial condition is considered (MSEµ0 /MSEivx,
MSEµ2 /MSEivx, and MSEµ3 /MSEivx) and regardless of the sample size. Overall, the smallest values (by quite a large margin,
especially under persistence) are those corresponding to MSEµ0 /MSEivx and MSEµ3 /MSEivx. This table shows that the

original IVX does roughly as well as when the residual-augmented approach with OLS demeaned residuals is used, which
is by far the worst performing approach of the demeaning alternatives considered. The other approaches almost uniformly
outperform the IVX and often by a very wide margin.

    It is also observed that this pattern is visible regardless of whether the predictors' innovations are autocorrelated or
not and regardless of whether autocorrelation is positive or negative. The gains over IVX also increase with T .

    To further evaluate the forecast risk performance of the procedures, in a second experiment (Experiment 2) we generate
data considering a more adverse environment allowing for the empirically relevant features described below in Section 4.5.

In Table 2 we report the results for MSEµk /MSEivx, k = 0, 1, 2, 3 obtained based on DGPs with time-varying volatility and

the time-varying persistence patterns detailed in Section 4.5.
    The first observation we can make from Table 2 is that a persistence change keeping the variance constant produces

basically similar forecasting risk ratios as those observed in Table 1. Overall, MSEµ1 /MSEivx suggests that the procedure

using residuals obtained from an OLS demeaned regression displays larger or equal forecast risk to that of the IVX except
when the break in c is towards high persistence (which is natural given that high persistence implies predictors xT-1

  7 We note that Hansen (2010) works with the asymptotics of the forecast risk, but for near-integrated processes. We choose here to work with
the finite-sample counterparts for IVX and residual-augmented IVX. Asymptotic statements may be based on the results from Section 3, but we omit
the details to save space.

                                                                                                        439
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                              Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

       Table 1
       Forecast risk ratio (Experiment 1).

         a1   c                     T = 200                                    T = 500

                                    MSEµ0    MSEµ1            MSEµ2    MSEµ3   MSEµ0    MSEµ1    MSEµ2   MSEµ3
                                    MSEivx   MSEivx           MSEivx   MSEivx  MSEivx   MSEivx   MSEivx  MSEivx

         -0.5 20                    0.871    1.016            1.048    0.887   0.808    1.000    1.000   0.808
                                                              0.900    0.750   0.647    1.029    0.882   0.647
              10                    0.713    1.025            0.697    0.523   0.439    0.965    0.649   0.439
                                                              0.486    0.331   0.279    0.874    0.441   0.279
              5                     0.492    0.992            0.219    0.160   0.125    0.713    0.201   0.132

              2.5                   0.311    0.914            1.000    0.848                     1.038   0.808
                                                              0.851    0.701                     0.857   0.657
              0                     0.144    0.751            0.653    0.476                     0.633   0.417
                                                              0.446    0.293                     0.431   0.267
         0    20                    0.833    1.015            0.201    0.141   0.808    1.038    0.190   0.124
                                                                               0.629    1.029
              10                    0.667    1.023            0.971    0.841   0.417    0.950    1.000   0.815
                                                              0.828    0.677   0.267    0.862    0.838   0.622
              5                     0.442    0.980            0.639    0.462   0.117    0.710    0.613   0.419
                                                              0.444    0.291                     0.425   0.258
              2.5                   0.272    0.895            0.206    0.141                     0.190   0.124

              0                     0.125    0.743

         0.5  20                    0.812    1.029                             0.815    1.037
                                                                               0.622    1.000
              10                    0.645    1.022                             0.403    0.952
                                                                               0.258    0.858
              5                     0.430    0.975                             0.117    0.707

              2.5                   0.268    0.902

              0                     0.124    0.737

Table 2

Forecast risk ratio (Experiment 2).

c (s)                               2 = 2             T = 200                           T = 500

5                                   1                 MSEµ0    MSEµ1   MSEµ2   MSEµ3    MSEµ0    MSEµ1   MSEµ2   MSEµ3
5 + 5I (s > 0.5)                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  MSEivx   MSEivx  MSEivx  MSEivx   MSEivx   MSEivx  MSEivx  MSEivx
5 + 20I (s > 0.5)                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
20                                  9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.481    0.993   0.674   0.504    0.448    0.966   0.655   0.466
25 - 5I (s > 0.5)                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.693    0.935   0.792   0.705    0.661    0.921   0.777   0.663
25 - 20I (s > 0.5)                                    0.867    0.992   0.978   0.867    0.849    0.986   0.959   0.851
                                    1                 0.579    1.139   0.602   0.643    0.504    1.145   0.556   0.530
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.467    1.127   0.609   0.522    0.412    1.118   0.588   0.437
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.570    1.101   0.772   0.620    0.529    1.088   0.765   0.559
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.730    0.988   0.850   0.755    0.690    0.976   0.833   0.699
                                                      0.887    1.012   0.988   0.883    0.860    1.013   0.969   0.858
                                    1                 0.738    1.163   0.638   0.816    0.683    1.183   0.600   0.733
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.673    1.191   0.673   0.755    0.630    1.217   0.652   0.674
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.725    1.200   0.825   0.800    0.706    1.176   0.765   0.706
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.809    1.051   0.906   0.851    0.765    1.056   0.898   0.786
                                                      0.928    1.039   0.997   0.925    0.889    1.041   0.973   0.885
                                    1                 0.877    1.178   0.644   0.945    0.828    1.172   0.586   0.862
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.846    1.192   0.712   0.904    0.762    1.190   0.667   0.810
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.895    1.018   1.018   0.912    0.840    1.000   1.000   0.840
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.918    0.991   0.957   0.921    0.911    0.996   0.955   0.907
                                                      0.983    1.008   1.004   0.974    0.967    1.005   0.981   0.960
                                    1                 0.957    1.061   1.052   0.983    0.920    1.060   0.940   0.920
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.911    1.063   0.937   0.937    0.853    1.088   0.912   0.882
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.889    1.016   1.016   0.889    0.857    1.000   1.000   0.857
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.907    0.982   0.953   0.908    0.902    0.986   0.949   0.898
                                                      0.981    1.005   1.004   0.970    0.965    1.002   0.982   0.960
                                    1                 0.939    1.053   1.053   0.962    0.895    1.070   0.965   0.912
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.889    1.067   0.922   0.922    0.846    1.077   0.897   0.872
                                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.877    0.951   0.992   0.836    0.870    0.944   0.981   0.833
                                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)  0.894    0.946   0.935   0.875    0.883    0.939   0.921   0.871
                                                      0.994    0.998   1.021   0.991    0.992    0.997   1.008   0.994
                                                      0.882    0.997   1.081   0.882    0.789    0.970   1.000   0.789
                                                      0.694    0.953   0.795   0.701    0.646    0.929   0.772   0.638

of large magnitude, such that even smaller improvements in the quality of the residual-augmented estimate of  are

affecting the forecast risk). Alternative demeaning schemes are again leading to best performing residual-augmented IVX

estimators and forecasts, as seen by MSEµ0 /MSEivx and MSEµ3 /MSEivx typically displaying the lowest values.
   The case corresponding to a large increase of the variance late in the sample (2 = 2 = 1 + 8I (s > 0.7)) shows a

substantial increase in the MSEµ0 /MSEivx, MSEµ2 /MSEivx and MSEµ3 /MSEivx ratios, but no change of the ranking.

                                                                                                        440
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                               Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Table 3

Empirical rejection frequencies of right-sided tests against local alternatives (negative short-run AR parameter (a1 =
-0.5) and error correlation of -0.95).

         b  tivx                      ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1  ~tiµvx2                                       ~tiµvx3  tivx     ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1  ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3

            T = 200                                                                                            T = 500

         0  0.116 0.054 0.102 0.046 0.066 0.118 0.056 0.104 0.050 0.060

         5  0.623 0.283 0.514 0.215 0.322 0.612 0.288 0.491 0.212 0.305

c = 0 10 0.965 0.646 0.912 0.724 0.683 0.960 0.652 0.902 0.726 0.664

         15 0.997 0.842 0.981 0.916 0.861 0.995 0.854 0.973 0.921 0.860

         25 1.000 0.965 0.998 0.987 0.969 1.000 0.968 0.996 0.988 0.970

         0  0.088 0.055 0.089 0.044 0.065 0.096 0.056 0.095 0.047 0.060

         5  0.236 0.162 0.238 0.128 0.187 0.238 0.161 0.237 0.125 0.171

c = 10 10 0.515 0.411 0.527 0.317 0.460 0.506 0.395 0.509 0.304 0.418

         15 0.863 0.770 0.877 0.659 0.819 0.855 0.757 0.867 0.639 0.783

         25 1.000 0.990 1.000 0.999 0.996 1.000 0.989 1.000 0.999 0.993

         0  0.074 0.055 0.075 0.038 0.062 0.084 0.056 0.083 0.042 0.061

         5  0.169 0.130 0.175 0.095 0.147 0.172 0.128 0.174 0.091 0.135

         10 0.347 0.285 0.354 0.213 0.313 0.333 0.267 0.335 0.197 0.280

c = 20 15 0.592 0.523 0.603 0.407 0.561 0.564 0.489 0.572 0.372 0.507

         25 0.966 0.943 0.971 0.880 0.959 0.960 0.931 0.962 0.860 0.944

         0  0.066 0.053 0.069 0.035 0.058 0.079 0.057 0.078 0.040 0.060

         5  0.145 0.117 0.148 0.083 0.129 0.148 0.118 0.149 0.082 0.123

c = 30 10 0.280 0.237 0.286 0.172 0.260 0.266 0.215 0.265 0.154 0.225

         15 0.471 0.418 0.480 0.322 0.449 0.435 0.380 0.438 0.281 0.394

         25 0.860 0.825 0.865 0.727 0.847 0.827 0.781 0.832 0.661 0.798

         0  0.064 0.050 0.065 0.033 0.055 0.074 0.057 0.074 0.039 0.061

         5  0.133 0.112 0.137 0.078 0.121 0.134 0.111 0.135 0.074 0.115

c = 40 10 0.246 0.213 0.251 0.153 0.229 0.230 0.189 0.230 0.135 0.197

         15 0.409 0.365 0.416 0.282 0.388 0.362 0.316 0.366 0.233 0.329

         25 0.771 0.734 0.779 0.631 0.756 0.706 0.662 0.712 0.540 0.676

         0  0.061 0.050 0.063 0.033 0.055 0.071 0.057 0.071 0.038 0.060

         5  0.119 0.106 0.125 0.075 0.113 0.125 0.105 0.125 0.071 0.110

c = 50 10 0.226 0.199 0.230 0.145 0.213 0.206 0.176 0.207 0.125 0.182

         15 0.370 0.337 0.376 0.257 0.354 0.318 0.280 0.322 0.205 0.290

         25 0.705 0.676 0.713 0.571 0.692 0.620 0.579 0.627 0.465 0.592

tIrNVheosXatitdetursee:asslttisidvpxufrraooilscmsetfdhrauoermreeIVciaunXnrtsrtAioevRdsetulmycceoodddmeemipnl uewtathenitdiehsdfpnoAaollpRodewrae,rmineagelulasKnweiondistg;thaaakmnriesdaxuet~iitsµmvex3adalrl;.elt~s(aiµ2ivgdx10u1lrae5eln)ssgidaftrhunoadmplst~=iµafvrxino,[m4iA(R=Ta/nb10a0O,s01eL)d,S02.2do,5en]3mavtenahadreniaewrbdelhseeAisdrReuwaaht~lriµ-vieacx0huuignshmedadiedc;nattt~thieµevdex2s
initial condition removed, are used. The DGP is as in (24) and (25) with  = 1 - cT -1 and  = bT -1.

4.4. Empirical rejection frequencies

To evaluate the in-sample rejection frequencies of the different procedures, we focus on one-sided testing (right-

sided, more specifically), since the sign of the slope coefficients is often known and dictated by economic theory, but for

completeness we also provide results for two-sided tests. Table 3 presents the results for the right-sided tests obtained

when vt follows an AR(1) with a1 = -0.5 (negative autocorrelation) in (25).8 This is especially the case when c is small

(see Demetrescu and Hosseinkouchack, 2020, for a discussion of the IVX test statistic in one-sided vs. two-sided test
setups). From Table 3 we observe that for T = 200 (T = 500), when b = 0, tivx and t~iµvx1 are oversized. Note that the
aenmdpi(r1i1ca.8l%r,e9je.6ct%i,on8.4fr%e)q, ureesnpceiecstivfoerlyt,hwehteivrxeatessftowr ht~iµvex1n  c = (0, 10, 20) for T = 200 and T = 500 are (11.6%, 8.8%, 7.4%)

(10.4%, 9.5%, 8.3%), respectively. At the same time, we                                               the corresponding rejection frequencies are (10.2%, 8.9% 7.5%) and

                                                                                                      also observe that t~iµvx0 , t~iµvx2 and t~iµvx3 display quite acceptable rejection
frequencies (for these statistics the empirical size is between [3.3%, 6.6%] for T = 200 and [3.8%, 6.1%] for T = 500).
In this experiment t~iµvx1 presents the largest size distortions of the residual augmented tests as a consequence of the OLS
demeaning of the AR model considered in computing the residuals. Regarding power we observe that out of the residual

augmented tests with adequate empirical size control (t~iµvx0 , t~iµvx2 and t~iµvx3 ), t~iµvx3 displays the best performance and it also
compares relatively well to the tivx, although the latter may display oversized behavior.

  8 In the Appendix we also provide results for positive short-run dynamics, i.e., when a1 = 0.5 (see Tables B.1­B.2). We observe in general some
size distortions for all tests, with tivx displaying the most severe distortions when compared to the other procedures, and t~ivxµi , i = 0, 2, 3 display
the smallest distortions.

                                                                                                        441
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                   Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Table 4

Empirical rejection frequencies of two-sided tests against local alternatives (negative short-run AR parameter (a1 =
-0.5) and error correlation of -0.95).

                b  tivx             ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1    ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3  tivx        ~tiµvx0        ~tiµvx1   ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3

                   T = 200                                                T = 500

                0  0.056 0.029 0.051 0.026 0.034 0.056 0.029 0.054 0.028 0.032

                5  0.359 0.196 0.313 0.119 0.223 0.338 0.195 0.297 0.119 0.209

                c = 0 10 0.892 0.530 0.822 0.572 0.572 0.883 0.537 0.802 0.571 0.552

                15 0.984 0.759 0.955 0.849 0.787 0.978 0.778 0.940 0.851 0.787

                25 0.999 0.933 0.995 0.973 0.941 0.999 0.943 0.990 0.974 0.945

                0  0.056 0.036 0.056 0.067 0.039 0.057 0.034 0.055 0.065 0.036

                5  0.137 0.093 0.140 0.072 0.108 0.138 0.089 0.137 0.073 0.097

c = 10 10 0.357 0.264 0.358 0.199 0.298 0.344 0.251 0.342 0.187 0.267

                15 0.723 0.613 0.739 0.482 0.669 0.708 0.594 0.713 0.458 0.621

                25 1.000 0.976 1.000 0.992 0.988 1.000 0.972 1.000 0.991 0.979

                0  0.054 0.044 0.053 0.072 0.045 0.054 0.041 0.054 0.071 0.041

                5  0.100 0.077 0.103 0.064 0.085 0.104 0.072 0.104 0.063 0.076

c = 20 10 0.229 0.178 0.232 0.129 0.200 0.215 0.164 0.215 0.116 0.173

                15 0.434 0.367 0.446 0.278 0.404 0.406 0.336 0.410 0.246 0.353

                25 0.913 0.869 0.920 0.776 0.896 0.896 0.843 0.901 0.729 0.859

                0  0.053 0.048 0.051 0.074 0.049 0.057 0.045 0.055 0.069 0.046

                5  0.087 0.070 0.090 0.062 0.075 0.091 0.066 0.089 0.064 0.071

c = 30 10 0.178 0.146 0.183 0.107 0.161 0.167 0.133 0.168 0.095 0.139

                15 0.334 0.287 0.342 0.210 0.311 0.299 0.246 0.301 0.179 0.258

                25 0.756 0.704 0.766 0.592 0.734 0.696 0.639 0.702 0.514 0.657

                0  0.052 0.051 0.051 0.073 0.050 0.055 0.046 0.054 0.068 0.047

                5  0.081 0.065 0.082 0.063 0.072 0.082 0.066 0.082 0.062 0.069

c = 40 10 0.152 0.132 0.157 0.099 0.142 0.142 0.120 0.143 0.086 0.124

                15 0.281 0.247 0.287 0.181 0.267 0.244 0.204 0.246 0.145 0.211

                25 0.643 0.606 0.654 0.494 0.631 0.563 0.515 0.570 0.399 0.529

                0  0.051 0.050 0.051 0.072 0.050 0.053 0.047 0.052 0.067 0.048

                5  0.076 0.064 0.077 0.063 0.067 0.077 0.063 0.078 0.061 0.066

c = 50 10 0.140 0.122 0.145 0.093 0.130 0.129 0.109 0.128 0.080 0.113

                15 0.255 0.224 0.260 0.167 0.240 0.212 0.182 0.212 0.130 0.188

                25 0.578 0.541 0.587 0.440 0.559 0.481 0.439 0.489 0.336 0.450

rtINVheosXatitdetursee:asslttisidvpxufrraooilscmsetfdhrauoermreeIVciaunXnrtsrtAioevRdsetulmycceoodddmeemipnl uewtathenitdiehsdfpnoAaollpRodewrae,rmineagelulasKnweiondistg;thaaakmnriesdaxuet~iitsµmvex3adalrl;.elt~s(aiµ2ivgdx10u1lrae5eln)ssgidaftrhunoadmplst~=iµafvrxino,[m4iA(R=Ta/nb10a0O,s01eL)d,S02.2do,5en]3mavtenahadreniaewrbdelhseeAisdrReuwaaht~lriµ-vieacx0huuignshmedadiedc;nattt~thieµevdex2s
initial condition removed, are used. The DGP is as in (24) and (25) with  = 1 - cT -1 and  = bT -1.

    In what concerns the two-sided versions of the statistics we observe from Table 4 that all tests with the exception

of t~iµvx2 display acceptable size control (although t~iµvx0 and t~iµvx3 display more conservative behavior when the predictor is

more persistent). We further observe that in the homogeneous framework considered in the simulations which led to

the results in  Table 4, and which only considers right-tailed alternatives,    that  the      tivx  displays  in       general  the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           best  power
performance,
                though not by a large margin compared to t~iµvx1 .9

4.5. Robustness against empirical features of the data

    To evaluate the performance of the procedures under other empirically relevant features we report results for the
empirical size under DGPs with time-varying volatility and time-varying persistence. To be specific, we consider five
common variance patterns:

    1. constant, 2 (s) = 2 (s) = 1;
    2. an early upward break, 2 (s) = 2 (s) = 1 + 8I (s > 0.3);
    3. a late upward break, 2 (s) = 2 (s) = 1 + 8I (s > 0.7);
    4. an early downward break, 2 (s) = 2 (s) = 9 - 8I (s > 0.3);
    5. a late downward break, 2 (s) = 2 (s) = 9 - 8I (s > 0.7),

  9 Results available from the authors show that in a context where left-sided alternatives are considered both the left-sided and two-sided tests
computed from residual-augmented predictive regressions display for all cases superior power performance than the tivx.

                                                                                                        442
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                       Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Table 5

Empirical rejection frequencies of right-sided tests under breaks in variance and persistence, negative short-run AR parameter (a1 = -0.5) and
error correlation of -0.95.

c (s)               2 =2              tivx     ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1       ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3                                            tivx     ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1  ~tiµvx2         ~tiµvx3

                                      T = 200                                                                                     T = 500

                    1                 0.109 0.058 0.105 0.053 0.069 0.114 0.062 0.111 0.055 0.066

                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.140 0.063 0.121 0.061 0.073 0.141 0.064 0.122 0.062 0.068

5                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.197 0.075 0.180 0.072 0.084 0.196 0.067 0.177 0.067 0.071

                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.178 0.069 0.199 0.051 0.078 0.185 0.067 0.205 0.053 0.072

                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.138 0.063 0.144 0.055 0.073 0.133 0.062 0.135 0.052 0.065

5 + 5I (s > 0.5)    1                 0.100    0.057    0.112         0.053    0.066                                              0.105    0.061    0.112    0.055           0.065
                                      0.129    0.064    0.121         0.063    0.072                                              0.130    0.061    0.121    0.062           0.066
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.177    0.071    0.170         0.071    0.079                                              0.179    0.063    0.170    0.066           0.066
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)  0.179    0.075    0.205         0.051    0.086                                              0.184    0.073    0.213    0.055           0.076
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.126    0.066    0.149         0.055    0.075                                              0.126    0.069    0.146    0.055           0.072
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

5 + 20I (s > 0.5)   1                 0.090    0.057    0.109         0.051    0.067                                              0.094    0.061    0.112    0.049           0.065
                                      0.110    0.060    0.114         0.060    0.069                                              0.116    0.059    0.118    0.063           0.062
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.144    0.064    0.149         0.060    0.071                                              0.147    0.056    0.151    0.060           0.060
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)  0.180    0.082    0.208         0.049    0.091                                              0.188    0.081    0.218    0.051           0.086
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.120    0.069    0.142         0.049    0.076                                              0.123    0.072    0.147    0.049           0.075
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

                    1                 0.076 0.058 0.078 0.039 0.064 0.078 0.056 0.079 0.039 0.060

                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.103 0.058 0.099 0.054 0.067 0.108 0.059 0.101 0.056 0.063

20                  1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.165 0.070 0.159 0.068 0.076 0.172 0.063 0.163 0.058 0.066

                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.144 0.067 0.154 0.038 0.072 0.162 0.073 0.172 0.038 0.076

                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.103 0.063 0.111 0.044 0.069 0.104 0.064 0.110 0.041 0.067

25 - 5I (s > 0.5)   1                 0.079    0.056    0.078         0.042    0.065                                              0.080    0.056    0.079    0.040           0.060
                                      0.106    0.060    0.100         0.056    0.068                                              0.112    0.060    0.106    0.058           0.063
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.172    0.072    0.163         0.068    0.078                                              0.180    0.066    0.168    0.061           0.069
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)  0.143    0.065    0.151         0.038    0.070                                              0.160    0.071    0.168    0.037           0.074
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.104    0.062    0.111         0.045    0.068                                              0.104    0.064    0.108    0.041           0.067
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

25 - 20I (s > 0.5)  1                 0.091    0.051    0.074         0.043    0.061                                              0.102    0.055    0.081    0.045           0.060
                                      0.132    0.060    0.109         0.057    0.070                                              0.138    0.063    0.114    0.059           0.066
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.3)  0.214    0.081    0.188         0.075    0.089                                              0.214    0.076    0.186    0.069           0.079
                    1 + 8I (s > 0.7)  0.134    0.054    0.121         0.034    0.061                                              0.139    0.057    0.124    0.035           0.061
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.3)  0.115    0.054    0.099         0.045    0.062                                              0.114    0.053    0.095    0.041           0.057
                    9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

Notes: See notes under Table 1. The DGP is as in (1) and (2) with  = 1 - ct T -1 and  = 0 and exhibits time-varying variances. For further details
see the text.

where I (·) is an indicator function; and to allow for time-varying persistence, six patterns for the localization parameter

c are considered:

    1. constant close to integration, c (s) = 5;
    2. small break towards stationarity, c (s) = 5 + 5I (s > 0.5);
    3. large break towards stationarity, c (s) = 5 + 20I (s > 0.5);
    4. constant close to stationarity, c (s) = 25;
    5. small break towards integration, c (s) = 25 - 5I (s > 0.5);
    6. large break towards integration, c (s) = 25 - 20I (s > 0.5).

   Table 5 provides the results for the right-sided tests computed from data with the features described above. We observe

that the oversizing of tivx noted in the homogeneous DGP context in the previous section, deteriorates even further in the

presence of variance breaks. From Table 5 we note that for T = 200 (T = 500) the rejection frequencies of tivx are between

[7.9%, 21.4%] ([7.8%, 21.4%]), with the worse situation generally occurring when a late upward break in variance is observed

(2 (s) = 2 (s) = 1 + 8I (s > 0.7)). This is explained by the findings of Demetrescu and Hosseinkouchack (2020) who

show higher-order noncentrality of the IVX t statistic (and thus size distortions) to depend on the variance pattern.

   On the other hand, the size control of t~iµvx0 , t~iµvx2 and t~iµvx3 is overall quite good. We observe that in general the rejection
frequencies of these tests are between [4.3%, 8.9%] for T = 200, and [5.3%, 8.6%] for T = 500, with the largest rejection
frequencies being observed for t~iµvx3 .~tiµvx1 is again an exception when compared to the other residual augmented approaches

as it displays similar oversizing patterns as tivx.

   Regarding the two-sided tests, Table 6 shows that results, overall, improve somewhat. Note that for T = 200 (T = 500)

othcecurrerjiencgtiwonhefrneqauleanteciuespwofartdhebrtweaok-siindevdartiiavnx caereisboebtwseerevned[.5F.4o%r,~t1iµv7x1 .2th%e]  ([5.5%, 17.1%]), with the worse situation  again
                                                                                                                                  rejection frequencies are very similar to  those

of the two-sided tivx test, i.e., [4.6%, 16.0%] forT = 200 and [4.9%, 15.8%] for T = 500. For the other tow-sided residual

                                                                 443
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                              Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Table 6

Empirical rejection frequencies of two-sided tests under breaks in variance and persistence, negative short-run AR parameter (a1 = -0.5) and error
correlation of -0.95.

c (s)                  2 = 2                   tivx      ~tiµvx0  ~tiµvx1  ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3  tivx                                               ~tiµvx0      ~tiµvx1    ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3

                                               T = 200                                       T = 500

                       1                       0.061 0.030 0.057 0.046 0.035 0.066 0.033 0.062 0.054 0.036

                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.087 0.034 0.075 0.039 0.039 0.089 0.035 0.074 0.037 0.037

5                      1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.154 0.047 0.143 0.051 0.054 0.150 0.040 0.135 0.041 0.043

                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.127 0.041 0.132 0.116 0.044 0.127 0.037 0.134 0.126 0.038

                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.080 0.033 0.082 0.056 0.038 0.080 0.033 0.080 0.063 0.035

5 + 5I (s > 0.5)       1                       0.061     0.033    0.063    0.061    0.038    0.063                                              0.035        0.066      0.066             0.037
                                               0.088     0.037    0.080    0.045    0.042    0.088                                              0.035        0.078      0.044             0.037
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3)        0.147     0.048    0.142    0.054    0.051    0.143                                              0.039        0.136      0.044             0.042
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.7)        0.130     0.046    0.143    0.130    0.048    0.135                                              0.041        0.145      0.136             0.043
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3)        0.079     0.037    0.089    0.066    0.041    0.081                                              0.037        0.090      0.072             0.040
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

5 + 20I (s > 0.5)      1                       0.056     0.038    0.063    0.071    0.041    0.057                                              0.039        0.064      0.075             0.040
                                               0.084     0.041    0.082    0.051    0.045    0.083                                              0.038        0.082      0.048             0.039
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3)        0.133     0.055    0.137    0.062    0.057    0.129                                              0.044        0.129      0.049             0.045
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.7)        0.134     0.052    0.148    0.137    0.054    0.139                                              0.045        0.154      0.146             0.047
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3)        0.081     0.042    0.091    0.074    0.044    0.082                                              0.043        0.093      0.083             0.043
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

                       1                       0.053 0.046 0.053 0.065 0.047 0.055 0.042 0.055 0.072 0.044

                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.086 0.045 0.081 0.050 0.047 0.083 0.043 0.078 0.046 0.044

20                     1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.164 0.060 0.160 0.059 0.060 0.163 0.047 0.157 0.048 0.047

                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.149 0.059 0.148 0.137 0.060 0.166 0.056 0.164 0.146 0.056

                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.086 0.052 0.087 0.079 0.053 0.085 0.051 0.088 0.085 0.052

25 - 5I (s > 0.5)      1                       0.054     0.044    0.052    0.062    0.047    0.056                                              0.042        0.056      0.069             0.043
                                               0.087     0.043    0.082    0.047    0.045    0.082                                              0.042        0.078      0.046             0.043
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3)        0.165     0.057    0.160    0.059    0.058    0.163                                              0.046        0.157      0.045             0.046
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.7)        0.146     0.058    0.144    0.134    0.059    0.162                                              0.055        0.158      0.144             0.055
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3)        0.084     0.051    0.084    0.075    0.052    0.085                                              0.049        0.087      0.081             0.049
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

25 - 20I (s > 0.5)     1                       0.054     0.035    0.046    0.041    0.038    0.058                                              0.038        0.049      0.046             0.039
                                               0.087     0.036    0.072    0.037    0.039    0.090                                              0.038        0.072      0.037             0.039
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.3)        0.172     0.053    0.158    0.051    0.059    0.171                                              0.046        0.153      0.042             0.048
                       1 + 8I (s > 0.7)        0.127     0.054    0.117    0.118    0.053    0.132                                              0.051        0.118      0.132             0.051
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.3)        0.074     0.042    0.065    0.060    0.043    0.073                                              0.047        0.063      0.062             0.045
                       9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

Notes: See notes under Table 1. The DGP is as in (1) and (2) with  = 1 - ct T -1 and  = 0 and exhibits time-varying variances. For further details
see the text.

augmented statistics t~iµvx0  tawnod-st~iiµdvx3e,dthveerrseiojenctoiof nt~iµvfx2redqiuspenlacyiessinargeebneetrwaleseinm[i3la.0r %s,iz6e.0t%o]  forT =       200        and [3.3%, 5.6%]  for T
= 500. Surprisingly the                                                                                                                         t~iµvx0 and             except when an    early
                                                                                                                                                             t~iµvx3 ,
downward break in the variance occurs (2 (s) = 2 (s) = 9 - 8I (s > 0.3)).10

5. Real estate returns and rent growth predictability

    Price determination in housing markets implies that rents are a fundamental determinant of the housing value and that
the rent-to-price ratio (also known as `cap rate') summarizes market expectations of future housing returns or rent growth
(cf. Plazzi et al., 2010, Ghysels et al., 2013 and Engsted and Pedersen, 2015 [EP]). The framework of analysis considers the
present value relation,

                                                                  

                                       
                       -1 - 
         rt  -  pt  =         +  Et         j  (ht +1+j  - rt+1+j)                                                                                                                        (26)
                                     

                                       j=0

where ht , rt and pt are, respectively, the log housing return, the log rent, and the log house price at time t,  is the
discount factor and  is a linearization constant; see Campbell et al. (2009), Plazzi et al. (2010) and Ghysels et al. (2013)

and EP.

    The present value relation in (26) suggests that, holding expected housing returns constant, an increase in expected

future rents leads to an increase in today's house price and originates a decrease in the rent-to-price ratio. Similarly,

 10 As a further robustness check of the findings Tables B.3 and B.4 in the appendix show that, for positive short-run correlation, the other tests
do not appear to be sensitive to the sign of the short-run serial correlation of the predictor. The effects are practically the same for both sample
sizes, indicating that the size distortions are not finite-sample in nature.

                                                                                                        444
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                             Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

holding the expected rent growth constant, an increase in expected future housing returns must imply a lower price

today and thereby an increase of the rent-to-price ratio. Thus, the rent-to-price ratio is a useful measure of valuation if

it can predict future housing returns or rent growth.

If expected rent growth and expected housing returns are both stationary, then the rent-to-price ratio should also be

stationary, however empirical evidence suggests that this is not always the case; see Kishor and Morley (2015) and the

results for ~ in the last column of Table 3. Therefore, in what follows we apply the residual-augmented IVX test (t~iµvx0 )

and contrast the results obtained with the conventional IVX test (tivx) of Kostakis et al. (2015), and the conventional OLS
based t-ratio computed with and without Newey­West standard errors, tOLS and tNW , respectively.

    The analysis in this section contributes to this literature with further evidence on predictability for 19 OECD countries

(Australia (AUS), Belgium (BEL), Canada (CAN), Switzerland (CHE), Germany (DEU), Denmark (DNK), Spain (ESP), Finland

(FIN), France (FRA) the UK (GBR), Ireland (IRL), Italy (ITA), Korea (KOR), Japan (JPN), the Netherlands (NLD), Norway

(NOR), New Zealand (NZL), Portugal (PRT), Sweden (SWE)) and the US. We also look at overall house price indexes for

the OECD and the Euro area 16 countries composition (EA16). The data consists of seasonally adjusted quarterly real

and nominal house prices, and the rent-to-price ratio from 1970Q1 to 2016Q1 for all countries except Australia (begins

1972Q3), Belgium (begins 1976Q2), Korea (begins 1986Q1), Portugal (begins 1988Q1), Spain (begins 1971Q1), Norway

(begins 1979Q1), and Sweden (begins 1980Q1). From the real and nominal house prices, inflation is computed, and from

the house prices and the rent-to-price ratio real and nominal rent growth as well as housing returns are obtained. The

latter is computed as Ht+1 = (Pt+1 + Rt+1) /Pt .

    Table 7 presents the findings for nominal housing returns, nominal rent growth and inflation predictability by the

rent-to-price ratio. According to (26) the rent-to-price ratio should predict returns with a positive sign and rent growth

with a negative sign. However, regardless of the test used, the results suggest that this is not always the case (which was

also noted by EP). The marginal     t-tests, tOLS                        and tNW ,  suggest that           the rent-to-price ratio is a significant predictor in 17 of
the 22 countries and economic       areas under                          analysis,                         and tivx only find predictability in 12 and 16 of the 22
                                                                                    whereas t~iµvx0
series, respectively.     oFtohrerinhsatanndc, et~i,µvx0tNaWndfintidvxs  predictability for   ITA, NLD, OECD and               EA16, which is not confirmed                                      by both
                                                                         find predictability  for nominal housing              returns in JPN and CHE which                                      was not
t~iµvx0 and tivx. On the
d(^ehtFe>rcotem0d),tbohyfewtrNehWsicu.hltshofowret~viµvex0rwonelaylseoigohbtsaerrevsetathtiastti1ca2ll(y55si%g)noiffictahnetp. Tahraemt~iµevx0terreseustltims sautgegsefsotr
                                                                                                                                                                              the   22  returns series are positive
                                                                                                                                                                              that  of  the 12 series for which the

rent-to-price ratio has statistically significant predictive power, 4 display a negative ^h. Table 7 shows that there seems

to be stronger nominal rent growth predictability than nominal housing return predictability which was also noted in

EP. Based  on       tNW the  only cases for which the rent-to-price ratio                                       is  not  a statistically significant predictor are IRL and
SWE. The            detects  predictability in nominal rent growth for 14                                       of  the  series of which six display significant negative
           t~iµvx0

parameter estimates (^r < 0).                                                                                                                                                 and t~iµvx0  when nominal housing
retuOrvnesraalnl,dthreennt ugmrobwetrhoaf rseigcnoinfisciadnetresdta. tIinstcicosntisragsrtetaotetrNWfo,rt~iµtvNx0Wdo(aensdnotOtLSfi)ntdhasingnfoifrictaivnxt                              for DNK, FRA, ITA, NLD,
                                                                                                                                                                              results

GBR, OECD and EA16 when housing returns are considered and for CAN, FIN, FRA, GBR, the US, OECD and EA16 when the
rent growth is analyzed. However, t~iµvx0 finds significant results for JPN and CHE for housing returns, and for SWE for rent
growth, whereas tNW (and tOLS ) does not.
    When real housing returns are used,11  t~iµvx0                       is  only   significant            for  BEL  and  KOR  (whereas                                       when      nominal  housing  returns

where used evidence was found for 12 countries), and when real rent growth is considered for BEL, CAN, FIN, KOR, NLD,

ESP and GBR (whereas for nominal rent growth 14 countries displayed evidence of predictability). According to EP, the

present value relation in (26) shows that if the rent-to-price ratio does not predict future housing returns, then it must

predict future rent growth. In other words, since the rent-to-price ratio varies over time then either expected housing

returns or expected rent growth, or both, must also vary over time, i.e., the null hypothesis cannot consist of having

unpredictable housing returns and unpredictable rent growth.

   Defining log inflation from t to t + 1 as t+1, and replacing ht+1+j and rt+1+j in (26) by (ht+1+j - t+1+j) and
(rt+1+j - t+1+j), respectively, the resulting representation suggests that if the rent-to-price ratio predicts nominal and

real housing returns or rent growth differently, then it must be due to the rent-to-price ratio having predictive power for

future inflation. For example, if nominal housing returns are predictable but inflation is not, then the result must be that

real housing returns are predictable. The evidence of predictability found with the nominal returns for DEU, JPN, NZL, PRT

and CHE is not observed when real returns are used, but significant results are observed when analyzing predictability

of inflation for these countries. From (26) it is clear that a negative return coefficient using nominal data can only turn

positive if the inflation coefficient is negative and numerically larger than the return coefficient. Note that the rent-to-price

ratio predicts inflation with a negative sign for DEU, JPN, PRT and CHE, which displayed negative return coefficients when

nominal data was used but these are not significant for real housing returns.

From the results of the predictability tests performed we conclude, using the four competing estimators that five

countries actually emerge for which the rent-to-price ratio is a significant predictor for housing returns and rent growth

in nominal terms. To be specific:

11 Results for real housing returns can be obtained from the authors.
                                                                                                      445
     Table 7                                                                                                                                                                                                               M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues
     Predictability of nominal returns, nominal rent growth and inflation. Sample: 1970­2016.

           House price returns                                                Rent growth                                            Inflation

446  BEL   t~IµV0X   tIVX            tOLS      tNW                      ^uv   t~IµV0X   tIVX            tOLS       tNW         ^uv   t~IµV0X    tIVX      tOLS       tNW                                ^uv   ~cap
     CAN                                                               ^u^v                                                   ^u^v                                                                     ^u^v
     DNK   3.93***   3.23***         5.66***   4.45***                        5.36***   4.22***         7.51***    6.50***           1.05       0.61      1.06       0.81                                     0.999
     FIN   4.05***   3.49***         4.25***   4.33***                 -0.70  10.46***  6.15***         5.68***    6.98***    0.19   1.53       1.87*     1.65*      1.02                              0.05   0.997
     FRA   2.05**    1.78*           6.11***   5.29***                 -0.79  1.46      0.93            7.16***    4.58***    0.39   0.60       0.25      4.20***    2.89***                           0.13   0.994
     DEU   1.45      1.95*           3.26***   2.20**                  -0.83  2.80***   2.11**          4.01***    3.52***    0.22   1.24       0.83      1.64       1.10                              0.15   0.989
     IRL   1.87*     2.11**          4.67***   4.51***                 -0.77  1.43      0.96            2.93***    2.44**     0.12   1.34       1.09      3.13***    2.27**                            0.12   0.991
     ITA   1.38      1.69*           5.08***   3.57***                 -0.44  0.89      0.63            3.92***    3.65***    0.50   -0.58      -0.72     1.12       0.81                              0.15   0.997
     JPN   -3.99***  -3.09***        -2.71**   -1.97**                 -0.37  -6.90***  -4.99***        -7.44***   -10.45***  0.20   -6.13***   -5.42***  -7.24***   -5.54***                          0.19   0.996
     KOR   2.08**    2.59***         7.99***   6.94***                 -0.41  -0.23     -0.52           0.17       0.14       0.66   -0.78      -1.10     0.86       0.60                              0.03   0.988
     NLD   -0.61     -0.61           3.27***   1.97**                  -0.43  -2.26**   -3.10***        -1.61      -1.74*     0.69   -3.87***   -4.15***  -7.03***   -7.21***                          0.04   0.965
     NZL   -3.03***  -2.88***        -0.82     -0.82                   -0.53  -9.57***  -7.63***        -5.39***   -6.17***   0.37   -8.02***   -8.23***  -6.17***   -5.72***                          -0.03  0.996
     NOR   -1.26     -1.60           -1.05     -0.75                   -0.50  -4.65***  -6.17***        -6.72***   -3.73***   -0.07  1.59       1.71*     1.30       0.92                              0.07   0.985
     PRT   1.53      2.31**          4.01***   4.42***                 -0.68  1.77*     1.09            1.82**     2.23**     0.06   -2.39**    -2.42**   -1.73*     -1.31                             0.34   0.988
     ESP   3.80***   3.05***         5.35***   4.54***                 -0.54  4.45***   3.07***         5.54***    7.21***    0.44   3.09***    2.21**    3.51***    2.84***                           0.00   0.999
     SWE   2.60***   1.85*           3.13***   2.97***                 -0.37  5.25***   2.85***         4.88***    3.54***    0.42   1.06       0.94      1.88*      1.73*                             0.13   0.996
     CHE   -1.66*    -1.77*          -3.66***  -2.43**                 -0.73  -4.97***  -2.93***        -6.19***   -3.70***   0.22   -4.96***   -5.96***  -11.44***  -9.78***                          0.15   0.992
     GBR   2.54**    2.72***         10.17***  7.41***                 -0.47  2.28**    2.26**          11.95***   10.00***   0.34   -1.48      -1.82*    -0.83      -0.64                             0.12   0.994
     USA   -0.28     -0.39           0.21      0.19                    -0.54  1.91*     1.54            -0.50      -0.76      0.18   2.34**     2.13**    0.01       -0.11                             0.08   0.995
     OECD  -2.76***  -2.19**         -1.49     -1.25                   -0.45  -8.83***  -9.66***        -10.03***  -7.50***   0.44   -9.14***   -8.74***  -9.45***   -7.20***                          0.23   0.977
     EA16  1.57      1.85*           4.18***   3.75***                 -0.78  1.47      0.80            2.82***    3.44***    0.30   0.20       -0.14     0.43       0.27                              0.19   0.990
           -1.38     -0.79           -0.08     -0.04                   -0.43  -1.43     -2.82***        -2.80***   -1.97**    0.56   -3.60***   -3.46***  -3.84***   -4.14***                          0.26   0.977
           -0.58     -0.10           5.50***   4.09***                 -0.37  -1.22     -1.53           3.42***    3.90***    0.45   -2.27**    -2.83***  -1.75*     -1.66*                            0.21   0.988
           -0.20     0.11            5.71***   4.01***                 -0.31  -1.42     -1.74*          3.05***    3.04***    0.30   -2.52* *   -3.13***  -2.16**    -1.84*                            0.27   0.986
                                                                       -0.40                                                  0.31                                                                     0.12

     Note: ~cap corresponds to the sum of the autoregressive parameters of an estimated AR model for the predictor (using AIC as a lag selection criteria) and ^uv /(^u^v ) is the correlation between the

     residuals of each of the       predictive regressions considered  (the house price returns,  rent  growth and inflation) and the residuals of the AR model of the predictor. tivx refers  to the  conventional   IVX  Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460
     test, t~iµvx0 to the residual  augmented IVX test, and tOLS and   tNW , to the conventional  OLS   based t-ratio computed with and without Newey­West standard errors, respectively.      House   price returns  are

     computed as earlier indicated.

     *Significance at the 10%.

     **Significance at the 5%.

     ***Significance at the 1%.
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                           Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

(a) The findings reveal that the rent-to-price ratio (in nominal terms) is a dominant and stable predictor for both future
     housing returns and rent growth for Australia, Germany, Portugal, Spain and Japan.

(b) Of these five countries where the rent-to-price ratio is found to be stable in terms of predictive power and the
     sign of the coefficient, three countries (Germany, Japan and Portugal) are shown to have a negative predictive
     relationship with future housing returns. That is, using robust inference methods, the pattern that stands out is
     that rent-to-price ratios negatively predict housing returns: a divergence from the dynamic Gordon Growth model,
     as stated by EP (2015).

(c) Interestingly, rent growth in Belgium turns out to be the most predictable variable of all. All four competing
     estimators predict future rent in both nominal and real terms. Rent growth is also consistently predictable in Spain
     and Korea, but the predictive coefficient of rent growth in Spain changes signs when shifting the analysis from
     nominal to real terms.

6. Concluding remarks

    This paper introduced a new IVX-based statistic computed from a residual augmented predictive regression motivated
by Amihud and Hurvich (2004), and reexamined the empirical evidence on house price returns and rent growth
predictability using these new robust methods.

    The residual-augmented IVX variant allows practitioners to distinguish more reliably between the null of no pre-
dictability and the alternative. The method is asymptotically correct under near-integration as well as under stationarity
of the regressor, has improved local power under high regressor persistence, and allows, e.g., for heterogeneity of the data
in the form of time-varying variances. Moreover, the residual-augmented IVX procedure also displays considerably better
size control of one-sided tests (right and left tailed tests) than the original IVX. This is an important feature, since many
empirical predictive regressions are run with one-sided tests.

    The results derived here on bias correction can be generalized for other types of instrumental variable estimation than
just IVX. The IV framework of Breitung and Demetrescu (2015), which distinguishes between type-I instruments that
are less persistent than the initial regressor (the IVX instrument is actually of type I), and type-II instruments that are
(stochastically) trending, yet exogenous, allows for a quick discussion: a careful examination of the arguments presented
here shows that they are easily extended for type-I instruments, but type-II instruments behave like the OLS estimator
where residual-augmentation is not improving on the test procedure asymptotically.

    The provided Monte Carlo evidence shows that the asymptotic improvements translate, all in all, into good finite-
sample performance, also in the presence of time-varying volatility or time varying persistence. Although the demeaning
scheme in the autoregression for the predictor does not matter asymptotically, it does so in samples of usual sizes and
it is recommended to resort to recursive demeaning or subtracting the initial condition to account for nonzero predictor
means when computing the required residuals.

    Finally, the analysis of OECD housing price data showed that the bias-adjusted IVX procedure detected predictability
more often than the original IVX procedure, but less often than non-robust procedures. Overall, this analysis reveals,
among other things, that the rent-to-price ratio (in nominal terms) is a useful predictor for both future housing returns and
rent growth for Australia, Germany, Portugal, Spain and Japan. We leave to further work the check of whether adding other
putative predictors (such as, among others, disposable income, mortgage rates, unemployment, investment in housing and
short-term interest rates) strengthens the evidence on predictability.

Acknowledgments

    We thank the editor Oliver Linton, an associate editor and two anonymous referees, as well as Danvee Floro,
participants of the SOFIE conference in Hong-Kong in 2016, and seminar participants at the University Carlos III in Madrid,
for useful comments and suggestions. We are also grateful to Rita Lourenço for providing us with the data used in the
empirical section. Demetrescu gratefully acknowledges the support of the German Research Foundation (DFG) through the
project DE 1617/4-2. Rodrigues gratefully acknowledges financial support from the Portuguese Science Foundation (FCT)
through project PTDC/EGE-ECO/28924/2017, and (UID/ECO/00124/2013 and Social Sciences DataLab, Project 22209), POR
Lisboa, Germany (LISBOA-01-0145-FEDER-007722 and Social Sciences DataLab, Project 22209) and POR Norte, Germany
(Social Sciences DataLab, Project 22209).

Appendix A. Preliminary results

Throughout   the     proofs  we     consider  that  t -1     kj  =  1-kt  =  T   ( 1-kt )                    1   T    for large enough T  and fixed k,
                                                                    1-k       a    1++···+k-1                ka
                                                        j=0

where    :=  1-   a  with     (0, 1) and a >        0 and fixed. Furthermore, let C  denote                  a generic  constant whose    value may
                 T
change from occurrence to occurrence.

Lemma A.1. Under the assumptions of Theorem 3.1, as T  , it follows that

                                                                                                        447
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                     Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

   1.   1    T            x¨ t -1 x¨ t -p   p    p    1    v2   (s) ds,   where         p   :=     (0, . . . , p-1), x¨t-p   :=    (x¨t-1, ..., x¨t-p)  and h  is as defined in
        T
                 t =p+1                                 0

        Theorem 3.1;

   2.   1    T            x¨t-px¨t -p       p      1     v2     (s)  ds,  where         is  a  p   ×  p  matrix  with  generic     element  aij  =  |i-j| ;
        T
                 t =p+1                          0

   3.   1    T            x¨ t -p x¨ t -p t2    p      1     v4  (s) ds;
        T
                 t =p+1                                  0

   4.   1    T            zt2-1 t2    p    0     1    v2   (s) 2      (s) ds.
        T
                 t =p+1                            0

Proof of Lemma A.1.                  Lemma       1    in  Phillips     and   Xu     (2006)      can   immediately      be    used  to  conclude  that   T  -1  T           x¨t x¨t-h   p

                                                                                                                                                                   t =h+1             

h  1    v2   (s) ds,   h  =     0,   1, . .    .,p  -    1;  this    suffices       to  establish     the  results  in  the  first  two  items.     The  result  in  item  3  also

     0

follows directly from Lemma 1 of Phillips and Xu (2006), and the proof can be adapted in a straightforward manner to

establish the result in item 4. 

Lemma A.2. Under the assumptions of Theorem 3.2, as T  , it follows that

        (T                         1

                            )- 2 T

            z~t2-1t2                                    d    N   (0, 1)
                                         z~t-1t
                                                       

             t =2                    t =2

where   z~t  :=    t -1     jt-j.

                       j=0

Proof of Lemma A.2.                  Consider sT2         :=      1    T         t -2       2j 2,t -1-j 2,t      and note that s2T     is bounded and bounded away from
                                                                T 1+
                                                                           t =2      j=0

zero, since

        min1t T           2,t min1tT             2,t       T t-2               s2T      max1t T          2,t max1tT       2,t    T t-2

                           T 1+                            2j                                             T 1+                   2j

                                                         t=2 j=0                                                               t=2 j=0

where   T          t -2      2j            CT 1+.

            t =2       j=0

   Since,

                                                             T               (   T          t -2                       )  1

             T         z~t-1t                    1               z~t-1t              t =2       j=0   2j 2,t -1-j 2,t     2

                 t =2                = T 1/2+/2                                                                                                                            (A.1)

        (T                    )   1                                   sT                    T         z~t2-1 t2
                       z~t2-1 t2
               t =2               2                        t =2                                 t =2

we show next that                     1             T z~t-1t         follows a limiting standard normal distribution by resorting to a central limit

                                 T 1/2+/2           t=2 sT

theorem for martingale difference [md] arrays (Davidson, 1994, Theorem 24.3). However, to apply it, we need to show

that, (i) maxt              1        z~t -1 t     p   0   and    (ii)    1   T          z~t2-1 t2   p
                       T 1/2+/2         sT                             T 1+                sT2
                                                                                 t =2               1.

   Given that the result in (ii) also implies

        (    T         t -2                               )  1

                 t =2      j=0  2j 2,t -1-j 2,t              2

                       T         z~t2-1 t2                       p    1,                                                                                                   (A.2)

                           t =2                                 

hence the result in (A.1) will follow.

   To verify (i) note that uniform boundedness of moments of order 2 +  for some  > 0 of T -/2z~t-1t suffices

to establish this condition. An application of Hölder's inequality shows that uniformly bounded 4th order moments of

T -/2z~t-1 and uniform L4+ -boundedness of t suffices, since  may be chosen arbitrarily close to zero, so we check the

uniform boundedness of

           (  z~t4-1   )             t-2 t-2 t-2 t-2

        E     T 2         =   1          jklm E (t-jt-kt-lt-m) .                                                                                                           (A.3)
                             T 2
                                     j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0

Due to the serial independence of t , the expectation E (t-jt-kt-lt-m) is nonzero only if the indices are pairwise equal,

thus we can simplify (A.3) as,

           (  z~t4-1   )             t-2 t-2

        E     T 2         =   1        2j2k E (t2-jt2-k) .
                             T 2
                                     j=0 k=0

                                                                                                   448
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                 Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Since t is uniformly L4-bounded, the expectations on the r.h.s. are uniformly bounded for any t, k and j, therefore,

                                                                                              2                           2

                      ( z~t4-1 )         1    t-2 t-2                       1       t -2                   1      T -2
                                        T 2                                T 2                            T 2
       0           E     T 2         C          2j2k                 =  C                 2j           C                2j       C
                                                                                
                                                                                                               

                                               j=0 k=0                              j=0                            j=0

which suffices for the required uniform L4-boundedness.
    To check condition (ii), it suffices to show that

             1          T            - sT2   p  0                                                                                                                            (A.4)
           T 1+
                       z~t2-1t2             

                      t =2

because       sT2   is  bounded      and    bounded       away     from    zero     (we   learn   from    Lemma         A.4that    sT2      1     1    2  (s)  u2  (s)  ds,  but  the
                                                                                                                                            2a
                                                                                                                                                    0

exact limit does not matter here). To prove (A.4), write

           T                       T t-2 t-2                                                     T t-2 t-2

        z~t2-1t2 =    jkt-1-jt-1-k (t2 - 2,t ) +    jkt-1-jt-1-k2,t

           t =2                   t=2 j=0 k=0                                                  t=2 j=0 k=0

                            =: AT + BT .

Note   that      t -2       t -2     j k t -1-j t -1-k       (t2   -   2,t )  builds      an  md  array   and      as   such,  is  uncorrelated          in  t.  Hence,  showing

                     j=0        k=0

T  1   AT  to    vanish     is  not  difficult,    given     that  from      the    uncorrelatedness      of   the      summands        we  can      write   that,
   1+

                                                                                                                      

           (1 )                            1       T            t-2 t-2
                                        T 2+2
       Var T 1+ AT                                                         j k t -1-j t -1-k      (t2        2,t   )
                                                                                                                    
                                   =                   Var                                                -

                                                 t =2           j=0 k=0

                                                                                               2

                                           1       T         t-2 t-2
                                        T 2+2
                                                                        jk    t   -1-j t -1-k        E (t2 - 2,t )2 .
                                                          
                                   =                   E

                                                 t =2        j=0 k=0

Now, t is uniformly L4-bounded and

                                                      2

               t-2 t-2                                           t-2 t-2 t-2 t-2

                            j   k t -1-j    t                                        jklm            (t -1-j   t         t         t          )
           
       E                                       -1-k       =                                       E                -1-k     -1-l        -1-m

                 j=0 k=0                                        j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0

where the expectation on the r.h.s. is, as before, uniformly bounded and nonzero only if the indices are pairwise equal.
Hence,

                                                          2

                          t-2 t-2                                       t-2 t-2

                                     j k t -1-j t -1-k           C   2j2k  CT 2
                      
       0           E

                        j=0 k=0                                         j=0 k=0

leading to Var (T -1-AT )  0 and thus AT = op (T 1+).

    Regarding BT , note that,

                                     T t-2                                                T t-2 t-2

       BT = T 1+sT2 +   2j (t2-1-j - 2,t-1-j) 2,t +   jkt-1-jt-1-k2,t

                                     t=2 j=0                                              t=2 j=0 k=0

                                                                                                  j=k

                 = T 1+s2T + BT 1 + BT 2.

   For BT1 we have from the serial independence and L4-boundedness of t that

                                                             2

                 t -2                                                         t -2

       E                2j  (t2-1-j   -     2,t -1-j )  2,t        =    4,t   4j E (t2-1-j           -    2,t      )2
           
                                                                                                               -1-j

                 j=0                                                          j=0

                                                                    CT 

                    t-2                                                                                                                 T
                     j=0
and    thus      E          2j     (t2-1-j       2,t         )  2,t          CT /2.  Hence,       E  T  -1-    BT         CT   -1-          t =2  T  /2          0 and Markov's
                                                                                                                      
                                              -        -1-j                                                        1                                      

inequality indicates that BT1 = op (T 1+).

                                                                                          449
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                            Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

      For BT2 we proceed similarly,

                                                                   2

                   T t-2 t-2

                               j      k     t   -1-j t -1-k 2,t          
                                                                         
      E

                                                                   

                   t=2 j=0 k=0

                               j=k

                         T T t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2

                   =     jklm2,t 2,s E (t-1-jt-1-ks-1-ls-1-m) ,

                   t=2 s=2 j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0

                                      j=k       l=m

where the expectations on the r.h.s. are nonzero if t - j = s - l and t - k = s - m or if t - j = s - m and t - k = s - l (with
t - j = t - k and s - l = s - m being excluded by the requirement that j = k and l = m). Note that, for any t, s, j, k, l, m
with j = k and l = m,

      2,t 2,s E (t-1-jt-1-ks-1-ls-1-m)                                   (         2,t  )2 (         2,t  )2

                                                                            max                max             C.

                                                                               t                  t

Let us now focus on the terms for which t - s = j - l = k - m. Thus, for t = s, t = 2, . . . , T , we obtain

                                                                                                   2

         t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2                                   t-2 t-2                       t -2

                                      jklm                  2j2k                               2j
                                                                                   
                                                        =                                             ;

        j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0                                    j=0 k=0                       j=0
      j=k,l=m,t -s=j-l=k-m
                                                              j=k

and for s = t - 1, t = 3, . . . , T , we have analogously that,

                                                                             2

         t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2                                           t -3

                                      jklm                 2             2j
                                                              
                                                        

         j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0                                           j=0

      j=k,l=m,t -s=j-l=k-m

while for s = t + 1, t = 2, . . . , T - 1 (or equivalently t = s - 1, s = 3, . . . , T ) it follows that,

         t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2                                      ( s-3 )2

          jklm  2  2l .

         j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0                                         l=0

      j=k,l=m,t -s=j-l=k-m

Repeating the discussion for s = t ± r for r = 2, . . . , T - 2, we have

                                                                                   2

         t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2                                           t -r -2

          jklm  22r   2j ,

         j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0                                                j=0

      j=k,l=m,t -s=j-l=k-m

leading to

                                                                                         2                                    2

         T T t-2 t-2 s-2 s-2                                             T      t -2                  T -2     T     t -r -2

                                                jklm                                  2j       + 2  2r            2j             .
                                                                          
                                                                   

      t=2 s=2 j=0 k=0 l=0 m=0                                            t=2 j=0                      r =1     t=2+r j=0
                   j=k,l=m,t -s=j-l=k-m

The   same         holds      when    imposing  t         -s  =  j-m         =  k  - l,  such  that,     with  t -r -2  2j    T -1     2j  and  T           C    CT ,  thus,

we ultimately have                                                                                                 j=0            j=0               t =2+r

                                                                 2

                   T t-2 t-2

                               j      k  t  -1-j t -1-k 2,t               CT 1+3
                                                                 
      E

                                                                 

                   t=2 j=0 k=0

                          j=k

and consequently BT2 = op (T 1+) when  < 1, as required to complete the proof. 

Lemma A.3. Under the assumptions of Theorem 3.2, it follows, as T  , that
                              )-1/2
      (T           zt2-1  t2         T         zt -1 t     d     (0, 1) ;
(i)                                                           N              and
             t =2                        t =2             

      (T           zt2-1  u2t  )-1/2  T                    d     (0, 1).

(ii)         t =2                         t =2  zt -1 ut      N

                                                                                               450
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                                     Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

   Lemma A.3 suggests the use of Eicker­White standard errors in the heteroskedastic near-integrated case, W .s.e :=
           zt2-1 ^ t2 )1/2
(T                          with ^t          the    OLS       residuals        guaranteeing             sup2t T         ^t     t       p    0 both in cases with and without intercept,
                                                                                                                                    
     t =2                                                                                                                             

   T          zt2-1                                                                                                         -

      t =2

and also better finite-sample behavior; see Kostakis et al. (2015). For the stable case, Eicker­White standard errors are

``mandatory'' under time heteroskedasticity (Phillips and Xu, 2006).

Proof of Lemma A.3. We first resort to the Phillips­Solo decomposition of vt and write vt = t + v~t where v~t is a
                                                                                                                                               L)-1                                     t -1
linear     process          in    t   with      exponentially           decaying              coefficients.        Let  also   z¯t  :=  (1  -          vt  .  Thus,  denoting  z~t  :=           jt-j
                                                                                                                                                    +                                       j=0

like in Lemma A.2, it follows that,

                                                                                                                     

                            t -1                                               t -1

           z¯t =   jt-j + v~t + ( - 1)  j-1v~t-j - t-1v~1

                            j=0                                                j=1

               = z~t + dt ,

                                                                                     (t-1                       )       CT 

and  it     can      then         easily       be      shown        that      Var           j=1   j-1 v~ t  -j                      such that dt  is uniformly L2-bounded given that

 - 1 = -aT -. Similarly, T -/2z~t is uniformly L2-bounded itself. We now show that

             1         T                     =     2        T                  + op (1)                                                                                                          (A.5)
           T 1+
                      z¯t2-1t2                    T 1+     z~t2-1t2

                     t =2                                     t =2

and

               1              T                                       T        z~t-1t + op (1) .
                                     z¯t-1t = T 1/2+/2
                                                                    

           T 1/2+/2                                                                                                                                                                              (A.6)

                            t =2                                        t =2

Let us consider first (A.5). Note that,

             1         T                     =     2        T                  +     2          T                       +     1       T
           T 1+                                                                                                             T 1+
                      z¯t2-1t2                    T 1+     z~t2-1t2                 T 1+       z~t-1dt-1t2                           dt2-1t2.

                     t =2                                     t =2                             t =2                                 t =2

Since,     E  (d2t-1        t2  )    =  E (dt2-1) E (t2)            and       E  (z~t  -1  dt  -1  t2  )       (E (z~t2-1) E (dt2-1))1/2 E (t2)        due     to  the     independence  of  t   and
                                                                                                       

dt-1 and of t and zt-1. With E (dt2-1), E (t2) and T - E (z~t2-1) being uniformly bounded, (A.5) then follows. To establish
(A.6), write

               1              T                                       T                              1           T
                                     z¯t-1t = T 1/2+/2                         z~t-1t + T 1/2+/2                      dt -1 t
                                                                                                               

           T 1/2+/2         t =2                                        t =2                                   t =2

and note that dt-1t                      has        the   md        property.          Hence,        T         dt -1 t     =   Op (T 1/2) due to the uniform L2-boundedness and

                                                                                                         t =2
independence of t and dt-1. Thus, from (A.5) and (A.6) we obtain that

               T            z¯t-1t                        T         z~t-1t              p     0.                                                                                                 (A.7)

                   t =2                         -             t =2                     

           (T                  )1/2                    (T                  )1/2
                        z¯t2-1 t2                                   z~t2-1 t2
                  t =2                                        t =2

   In a second step we use the same reasoning to show that

               T            z¯t-1t                        T         zt -1 t             p     0.                                                                                                 (A.8)

                   t =2                         -             t =2                     

           (T                  )1/2                    (T                  )1/2
                        z¯t2-1 t2                                   zt2-1 t2
                  t =2                                        t =2

Write      to  this     end       zt  :=     z¯t  + rt    where         rt  :=   - (1 - L)-1              ct   xt -1  with
                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                    +

               (1             )              1    tt                    ct -j    )j    (         ct-k )k                            1     tt
           Var                               T                                                                                      T
                            xt                  (                                       1         T         E (vt-jvt-k)                         E  (vt        vt    )  .
                      T                                    1-                                                                                                      -k 
                                      =                                     T              -                                                               -j
                                                j=1 k=1
                                                                                                                                        j=1 k=1

Given the uniform L2-boundedness of the innovations t and the exponential decay of the Wold coefficients of vt ,
E  (vt               )          Ce|j-k|                    1
        -j  vt -k                            t    and           xt  is  easily       shown         to  be   uniformly         L2-bounded.

                                                            T
   The key in establishing (A.8) is to note that rt-1 is independent of t and uniformly L2-bounded, and that T - E (zt2-1)
is uniformly bounded too whenever T - E (z¯t2-1) and E (rt2) are. The arguments employed to show (A.7) thus apply for zt
and z¯t as well, and (A.8) holds.
                                      T                                 T
   Summing up,                                  zt -1  t      and                 z~t  -1  t      are asymptotically equivalent and the result follows from Lemma A.2.
                                         t =2                              t =2
                                                        )1/2                     z~t2-1 t2 )1/2
                                  (T         zt2-1  t2              (T

                                       t =2                              t =2

                                                                                                               451
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                               Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

The proof of the result in (ii) follows along the same lines and we omit the details. 

Lemma A.4. Under the assumptions of Theorem 3.2, it holds, as T  , that

     1.    1      T           zt2-1 t2     p       2     1    2  (s)  2     (s)   ds;
         T 1+                                      2a
                      t =p+1                               0

     2.    1      T           zt2-1 u2t    p       2     1    2  (s)  u2    (s)   ds   where       u2    (s)  =  2    (s)   +     2 2     (s);
                  t =p+1                           2a
         T 1+                                              0

     3.    1      T           zt -1 x¨ t -1           2    (   (1) X¨    (1)   -   1    X   (s) dM       (s)  +  1    c  (s) X 2        )       where   X¨  (s)    =  X  (s)  -  1    X  (r) dr  and
         T 1+                                          a                                                                          (s) ds
                      t =p+1                                X                        0                             0                                                               0

         X (r) is an Ornstein­Uhlenbeck type process as defined in (15).

Proof of Lemma A.4.                   1.  To     obtain       the  limit     of      1    T              zt2-1 t2 ,  we     use   from      the  proof  of     Lemma     A.3     (see    (A.2))  the
                                                                                   T 1+
                                                                                              t =p+1

fact that

           1        T       zt2-1 t2        2         1      T t-2                                        (1) .
         T 1+
                                                      1+     2j2,t-1-j2,t

                                      =            T                                               +  op

                  t =p+1                                   t=2 j=0

The  Lipschitz    property            implies         that    2,t -1-j    -    2,t          C  j   such that
                                                                                               T

                                                                                                      

                    1      T t-2                                          T               t-2                     1        T t-2
                  T 1+                                                                                        C T 2+
                                         2j   2,t     -1-j 2,t     -  2,t 2,t              2j                              j2j.
                                                                                                  
         0                                                                                               

                          

                           t=2 j=0                                    t =2                 j=0                           t=2 j=0

On the r.h.s. we have immediately, as T , that

           1        T t-2     j2j
         T 2+
                  

                                              0

                  t=2 j=0

                                      t  2(t  -3)  (-1)-(2(t -2)         )                                                                                       
                                                                      -1
given that       t -2     j2j                                               ,  where        t 2(t -3) (-1)            CT 1+2(t-3)           and      2(t -2) -1         CT 2. We      also observe
                               =                      (2 -1)2                                                                                                      
                     j=0                                                                      (2 -1)2                                                (2 -1)2     

that,

           1      T                   t -2                   1       T                 T    ( 1 - 2(t-1) )
         T 1+                                              T 1+                        a         1+
                   2,t 2,t  2j                        =             2,t 2,t

                  t =2                j=0                          t =2

                                                             1       T                     T                    1      T    2,t  2,t   T    ( 2(t-1) ) .
                                                           T 1+                                               T 1+                     a       1+
                                                                    2,t 2,t            a (1 + )                      

                                                      =                                                  -

                                                                   t =2                                               t =2

The  first    summand         on      the   r.h.s.     is  easily  seen        to  converge        to     1   1    2  (s)   2    (s)   ds,  while,   for    the     second,   we     have
                                                                                                          2a
                                                                                                                0

           1        T                 T    ( 2(t-1) )              C       T                =      O (T -1)      =    o (1)
         T 1+                         a       1+                   aT
                   2,t 2,t                                                2(t-1)

                  t =2                                                   t =2

as required to complete the proof.

2. The proof of 2 is analogous to the proof of 1 and is therefore omitted.
                      t
3.       Let  St  :=           zt  .  We      first    follow      Breitung        and    Demetrescu           (2015,       Proof  of     Corollary     1.2)     and    show     that
                          j=2

              1                1
         T 1/2+ St = aT 1/2 xt + Rt,T

         [    (         2   )]1/2                                                                        1, . . . , T . The arguments are essentially the same as there;
                        
where     E    Rt,T                           0 as T              uniformly in t                   =

                                                                         [(                        2  )]1/2        Cj1/2
                                                                                                   
the  only     difference       is  having          to  show      that                  -   xt  -j                           for   all  t  and    j,  which     is   obvious      in  their  strictly
                                                                          E xt

stationary       setup,     but    marginally            more      difficult      here.    To      this end,     recall     that  xt        :=   vt  -  ct -1    xt -1  and   use Minkowski's
                                                                                                                                                          T
inequality to conclude that,

                                                                                       j-1                         )21/2
                                                         ( j-1
                  - xt-j)2)]1/2                                                    1
         [(                                                           vt -j        T  
          E (xt                                                                           ct-k-1xt-k-1 
                                              =    E                           -

                                                               k=0                     k=0

                                                                             )21/2                        j-1                [    (                )2  )]1/2
                                                         ( j-1                                                                      (
                                                                                                      1                        E          xt -k-1
                                                                      vt-j  + 
                                               E                                                                 |ct-k-1|                                        ;

                                                               k=0                                    T k=0                                 T

                                                                                                      452
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                               Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

                                                                                                 T -1/2xt-k-1,                                   [(                   2  )]1/2
                                                                                                                                                  E xt                
and    therefore    using   the  uniform           boundedness         of  the     variance  of                     it  follows  indeed   that             -  xt  -j            

Cj1/2 as required.

    We then follow Breitung and Demetrescu (2015, Proof of Theorem 2) and obtain via partial summation that,

          1         T                           1       T      (St-1 - St-2) xt-1

                                                      

         T 1+    t =p+1    zt-1xt-1 = T 1+            t =p+1

                                        =    1        (ST -1xT -1 - Sp-1xp) -             1        T
                                           T 1+                                         T 1+
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                      St-2xt-1.

                                                                                                 t =p+1

Now, since Sp-1xp = Op (1) it is negligible in the limit; furthermore note that,

          1         T                              1        T                      1       T     ct -2 St -2 xt -2 .
                           St-2xt-1 = T 1+                        St-2vt-1 - T 2+
                                                                                         

         T 1+    t =p+1                                   t =p+1                        t =p+1

For the first summand on the r.h.s., we have using the Phillips­Solo device for the AR process vt-1 that,

          1         T                                       T                      1      T      St -2 v~ t -1
                           St-2vt-1 = T 1+                       St-2t-1 + T 1+
                                                                                        

         T 1+    t =p+1                               t =p+1                            t =p+1

                                        =: AT + BT ,

where v~t is a linear process with exponentially decaying coefficients.
                           T                                      T
    Then,    AT   =  aT                 xt -2 t -1    +   T 1/2               Rt -2,T  t-1.  It  is  furthermore        seen   from  the  expression   of  Rt ,T      (Breitung
                               t =p+1                                 t =p+1

and Demetrescu, 2015, Proof of Theorem 2) that Rt,T is independent of ut+j, vt+j 1  j  T -t whenever (ut , vt ) is serially

independent, such that Rt-2,T t-1 are the elements of a martingale difference array with uniformly vanishing variance,
         (T                           )
so  Var                 Rt -2,T  t -1      =    op (T )   as   required       for  the  summand         involving     Rt ,T  to  vanish.  Since  t -1  is  independent          of
                t =p+1

xt -2  and   the  conditions     of     Hansen        (1992)      are  fulfilled,  T -1  T              xt -2 t -1  converges    weakly,  and    we    obtain

                                                                                             t =p+1

                  2  1
       AT  a                  X (s) dM (s) .

                           0

    Using the partial summation formula on BT , it follows that,

       BT    =     1       (v~T -1ST -2   - v~p-1Sp-1) -            1           T                                                                                        (A.9)
                 T 1+                                             T 1+
                                                                              
                                                                                   v~ t -2 St -2 .

                                                                           t =p+1

Since sup1tT |St | = T  sup1tT |xt | + op (T 1/2+) = Op (T 1/2+) and v~p-1Sp-1 = Op (1), it follows that the first summand

on the r.h.s. of (A.9); for the second, we have

          1         T                              1        T
                           v~t-2St-2 = T 1+                       v~ t -2 zt -2 .
                                                          

         T 1+    t =p+1                                   t =p+1

Clearly, v~t-2 is uniformly L2-bounded, and it is easily shown that T -/2zt is uniformly L2-bounded as well. Then, the
Cauchy­Schwarz inequality indicates that E (|v~t-2zt-2|) < CT /2 such that

                                              

                1       T                     
          
                1+          v~ t -2 St                    -/2
                                              
       E                                  -2          CT
             T
                                              

                    t =p+1                    

and      1   T             v~ t -2 St -2   vanishes       in   probability.
       T 1+
                 t =p+1

    Hence

                                                                                                                             

           1        T                      1 xT2-1        1 a                T                       1     T
         T 1+                              aT             a  T 1+                  St-2t-1 - T 2
                                                                                                          ct-2xt2-2 + op (1) .

                           zt -1 xt -1  =             -

                 t =p+1                                                    t =p+1                        t =p+1

Using the weak convergence of St and xt we obtain

           1         T                     2       [              ( 1                            1                      )]
         T 1+
                                            a         X 2 (1) -            X (s) dM (s) - c (s) X 2 (s) ds ,

                        zt -1 xt -1                                    0                         0

                 t =p+1

                                                                                         453
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                           Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

and also

         1          T                   2             1

                  

       T 1+              zt-1x¯              X (1)            X (s)ds
                                          a
                 t =p+1                                 0

as   required.    Note       that,   interestingly,                1   T              St -2 vt -1     converges         under   serial       correlation     to     an    Itô-type      integral
                                                                 T 1+
                                                                           t =p+1

without     bias  term,      unlike     1  T               xt -2 vt -1 .   This    is  because         St  and   xt  require    different     normalizations,             and      the  BT  term
                                        T
                                               t =p+1

defined  above        vanishes       for      >  0    --   but   not   for         =   0,   which      is  essentially  characterizing             1  T             xt -2 vt -1 .     
                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                                                                          t =p+1

Proof of Theorem 3.1. Write for the stable autoregression case ^t := ¨t - (^ - ) x¨t-p with x¨t-p stacking the p lags of
x¨t and  the corresponding coefficients (of (1 - L) A (L)), i.e. the pure autoregressive representation of xt .

   Note that y~t = y¨t - ^ ^t since ^t is demeaned by construction, and y¨t = x¨t-1 + ^ ^t +  ¨t - ^ ^t + ¨t such that

       ~ ivx          T           zt -1 y~ t                  T             zt-1( ¨t        -  ^ ^t    + ¨t ) .

                          t =p+1                 =+               t =p+1                                                                                                                    (A.10)

              :=   T                                                   T

                       t =p+1    zt -1 x¨ t -1                             t =p+1      zt -1 x¨ t -1

     Then, analyze

                     t -3

       zt-1 =  jxt-1-j

                     j=0

                                                                                            t -4

                 = (xt-1 - µx) - t-3 (x1 - µx) + ( - 1)  j (xt-2-j - µx) .

                                                                                            j=0

We   have    that  (     -   1)  t -4      j     (xt -2-j  -     µx)   =         a  t -4       j   (xt -2-j   - µx)     =  -     a  dt -2    where    dt -2  is  here,    with     xt   a   stable
                                                                                                                                T
                                     j=0                                    -T          j=0
autoregression, a mildly integrated process which is known to be Op (T /2). Furthermore, t-3  0 when t goes to infinity

at suitable rates; in the derivations below, the effect will be quantified precisely whenever needed, but it is important to

keep in mind that zt-1  xt-1 - µx which is a stable autoregression.
   We thus have for the numerator of ~ ivx -  in (A.10) that,

         T                                                    T                          T                                            T

        zt-1 (¨t +  ¨t - ^ ^t ) =  zt-1¨t -   zt-1 (^t - ¨t ) - (^ -  )  zt-1^t .                                                                                                           (A.11)

       t =p+1                                             t =p+1                      t =p+1                                          t =p+1

The  first  two   summands           in   (A.11)      deliver     a    normal       distribution.          This  is  because    T            zt-1¨t   =  T                zt -1 t  +    op  (T  1/2 )

                                                                                                                                    t =p+1                   t =p+1

and

        1          T                       1       T                            a          T                      x1      T
       T 1/2             zt-1t = T 1/2                     xt-1t - T 1/2+                      dt -2 t           T 1/2
                                                                                                                         t-3t

                                                                                                           +

                 t =p+1                          t =p+1                                t =p+1                           t =p+1

                                           1       T       xt-1t + op (1)

                                                 

                                  = T 1/2        t =p+1

with  T           dt -2 t    =   Op (T 1/2+/2)            given   the      results     in   the   proofs   of    Lemmas         A.2  and     A.3,  and   T             t-3t        =  Op (T /2)

          t =p+1                                                                                                                                             t =p+1

                      (T                         )               (T                   )        Op (T ).                                      T                            T

given  that      Var         t =p+1  t  -3    t     =      Op           t =p+1  2t       =                 Furthermore,         since            t =p+1  zt-1¨t        =      t =p+1    zt -1 t  +

op (T 1/2),

                                                                                         

        1          T     zt-1 (^t         ¨t  )            1       T                   
       T 1/2                                               T              zt-1x¨t-p T (a^ - a) + op (1) ,
                                                                 

                                     -           =  -   

                 t =p+1                                          t =p+1

where  the       OLS  autoregressive             estimators,                (a^    -   a)   =    (     T                       )-1     1     T           x¨ t -p t  ,  following      standard
                                                                                                    1                x¨ t -p x¨ t -p  
                                                                         T                          T      t =p+1                                t =p+1
                                                                                                                                        T

arguments        can     be  shown         to    have      a     limiting   multivariate               normal        distribution.    We      now     show       that     1  T          zt -1 x¨ t -p
                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                             T                                   t =2

does   not    converge       to   a  vector         of   zeros,   such      that       the    limiting     distribution         of      1        t =p+1  zt -1  (^t    -  t )  is  driven        by
                                                                                                                                      T 1/2
 1   T           (xt-p       µx)
                         -           t    with        a    vector      of  ones     (noting        that    demeaning       xt   has   no     effect   asymptotically).             Given    that
         t =p+1
  T

                                                                                                 454
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                   Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

                  Table B.1

                  Empirical rejection frequencies of right-sided tests against local alternatives (positive short-run AR parameter (a1 = 0.5)
                  and error correlation of -0.95).

                              b       tivx         ~tiµvx0       ~tiµvx1     ~tiµvx2          ~tiµvx3          tivx      ~tiµvx0        ~tiµvx1       ~tiµvx2   ~tiµvx3

                                      T = 200                                                                  T = 500

                              0       0.119 0.058 0.148 0.050 0.070 0.118 0.060 0.149 0.050 0.063

                              5       0.995 0.815 0.973 0.897 0.837 0.994 0.843 0.978 0.914 0.850

                  c=0         10 1.000 0.971 0.999 0.991 0.974 1.000 0.980 0.998 0.993 0.980

                              15 1.000 0.993 1.000 0.999 0.994 1.000 0.997 1.000 0.999 0.997

                              25 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              0       0.098 0.056 0.123 0.047 0.066 0.102 0.059 0.123 0.050 0.062

                              5       0.816 0.702 0.888 0.585 0.761 0.838 0.731 0.910 0.610 0.757

                  c = 10 10 1.000 0.994 1.000 1.000 0.997 1.000 0.996 1.000 1.000 0.997

                              15 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              0       0.086 0.056 0.100 0.043 0.065 0.088 0.055 0.105 0.043 0.061

                              5       0.508 0.427 0.568 0.323 0.468 0.530 0.449 0.597 0.336 0.468

                  c = 20 10 0.990 0.970 0.996 0.940 0.984 0.995 0.984 0.998 0.961 0.988

                              15 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              0       0.079 0.055 0.092 0.040 0.063 0.082 0.055 0.094 0.040 0.059

                              5       0.373 0.311 0.418 0.232 0.342 0.397 0.334 0.444 0.244 0.349

                  c = 30 10 0.885 0.841 0.913 0.737 0.868 0.913 0.880 0.939 0.784 0.894

                              15 1.000 0.998 1.000 0.996 1.000 1.000 0.999 1.000 0.998 1.000

                              25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              0       0.077 0.055 0.088 0.040 0.064 0.079 0.058 0.090 0.039 0.061

                              5       0.303 0.251 0.336 0.186 0.276 0.324 0.273 0.359 0.196 0.284

                  c = 40 10 0.746 0.700 0.788 0.574 0.731 0.790 0.748 0.831 0.620 0.765

                              15 0.987 0.978 0.993 0.941 0.985 0.994 0.991 0.997 0.969 0.993

                              25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                              0       0.074        0.057         0.084           0.039        0.064            0.076     0.057          0.087         0.040     0.061
                                                   0.214         0.289           0.159        0.234            0.277     0.234          0.309         0.168     0.245
                              5       0.261        0.586         0.678           0.463        0.618            0.682     0.633          0.722         0.508     0.649
                                                   0.916         0.953           0.842        0.934            0.966     0.955          0.976         0.897     0.962
                              10 0.638             1.000         1.000           1.000        1.000            1.000     1.000          1.000         1.000     1.000

                  c = 50 15 0.941

                              25 1.000

                  Note: See Table 3.

demeaning xt is easily seen to have no asymptotic effect in

        1    T                    1     T                                    1      T       t-3 (x1 - µx) x¨t-p -                   a      T
        T                                     (xt-1 - µx) x¨t-p - T                                                               T 1+
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                              dt -2 x¨ t -p ,
                   zt-1x¨t-p = T
           t =p+1                     t =p+1                                      t =p+1                                                t =p+1

the first summand on the r.h.s. gives the desired limit (see Lemma A.1). The second is easily seen to vanish since

E ((x1  -  µx) (xt  -   µx))  vanishes      at  exponential         rate     (in  t ).  For   the      third,  we    show   that  T              dt -2 x¨ t -p  =  Op    (T )  as  follows.

                                                                                                                                      t =p+1

First, note that demeaning xt has no asymptotic effect, then, by resorting to the Phillips­Solo device, it is tedious, yet

straightforward to show that

                                                                                  

        1    T            (xt-p     µx)              1        T     d~ t-2t-p                                                t -3
        T                                            T
                                                                                                               d~t-2 :=  jt-2-j.

                   dt -2         -       =    Op                                              where                          j=0

           t =p+1                                           t =p+1

Then,   1  T           d~ t-2t-p  =   1  T           d~ t-p-1t-p          +  Op   (1)   ,  and  the    proofs        of  Lemmas      A.2         and  A.3      provide   the   arguments
        T                             T
               t =p+1                        t =p+1

                                                ( ) Op
leading    to  1  T           d~ t-p-1t-p   =        T 1/2+/2             =  Op (1)     as    required.
               T                                          T
                      t =p+2

The third summand in (A.11) is

                                                                                                                            

        ^ -          T                                1       T                            1    T
         
                          zt-1^t  = (^          )                         zt-1t +                      zt-1 (^t          t  )            (1)
                                                                                                                             
                                         -                                                                            -           =  op

           T t=p+1                                          T t=p+1                         T t=p+1

                                                                                           455
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                         Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

                 Table B.2

                 Empirical rejection frequencies of two-sided tests against local alternatives (positive short-run AR parameter (a1 = 0.5)

                 and error correlation of -0.95).

                                b           tivx          ~tiµvx0      ~tiµvx1          ~tiµvx2      ~tiµvx3   tivx            ~tiµvx0     ~tiµvx1       ~tiµvx2       ~tiµvx3

                                            T = 200                                                            T = 500

                                0           0.057 0.030 0.074 0.027 0.035 0.057 0.031 0.077 0.030 0.034

                                5           0.976 0.733 0.936 0.818 0.759 0.975 0.767 0.946 0.841 0.775

                 c=0            10 1.000 0.948 0.994 0.978 0.954 0.999 0.963 0.995 0.985 0.965

                                15 1.000 0.986 0.999 0.996 0.988 1.000 0.992 0.999 0.998 0.992

                                25 1.000 0.998 1.000 1.000 0.998 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 0.999

                                0           0.056 0.035 0.064 0.064 0.040 0.061 0.036 0.067 0.064 0.037

                                5           0.651 0.526 0.745 0.407 0.585 0.674 0.554 0.773 0.427 0.584

                 c = 10 10 1.000 0.984 1.000 0.998 0.992 1.000 0.989 1.000 1.000 0.992

                                15 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                0           0.058 0.043 0.062 0.073 0.045 0.058 0.041 0.062 0.070 0.042

                                5           0.354 0.278 0.407 0.208 0.315 0.371 0.296 0.426 0.220 0.312

                 c = 20 10 0.966 0.923 0.981 0.851 0.949 0.979 0.948 0.990 0.897 0.961

                                15 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 0.999 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                0           0.057 0.047 0.060 0.075 0.048 0.057 0.042 0.060 0.071 0.045

                                5           0.249 0.194 0.285 0.144 0.218 0.262 0.211 0.300 0.152 0.223

                 c = 30 10 0.773 0.713 0.820 0.592 0.753 0.819 0.764 0.860 0.640 0.783

                                15 0.998 0.991 0.999 0.979 0.997 1.000 0.998 1.000 0.992 0.999

                                25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                0           0.056 0.049 0.060 0.076 0.050 0.057 0.045 0.059 0.071 0.046

                                5           0.193 0.156 0.221 0.113 0.173 0.209 0.169 0.236 0.123 0.177

                 c = 40 10 0.607 0.545 0.651 0.423 0.583 0.654 0.592 0.700 0.470 0.610

                                15 0.959 0.936 0.973 0.866 0.953 0.980 0.969 0.986 0.921 0.974

                                25 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000

                                0           0.057         0.050        0.061            0.077           0.051  0.056           0.046          0.057      0.069         0.046
                                                          0.135        0.182            0.100           0.149  0.177           0.146          0.198      0.103         0.153
                                5           0.162         0.430        0.529            0.324           0.461  0.533           0.484          0.575      0.367         0.497
                                                          0.830        0.891            0.732           0.853  0.916           0.892          0.935      0.799         0.903
                 c = 50 10 0.482                          1.000        1.000            1.000           1.000  1.000           1.000          1.000      1.000         1.000

                                15 0.868

                                25 1.000

                 Note: See Table 3.

since ^     is easily shown to be consistent for  ,                                 1   T            zt -1 t   =       Op (1) like in the case of                  1   T           zt -1 t  ,  and
                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                            t =p+1                                                                         t =p+1
                                                                                     T                                                                              T
     T
 1               zt -1  (^t  -  t )  =      Op  (1)  as   above.       Hence,
         t =p+1

  T

           1       T    zt-1 (t +  ¨t           - ^ ^t ) =          1      T

                                                                         
                                                                              zt -1 t
            T t=p+1                                                T t=p+1

                                                                                                                                 -1

                      1        T            (xt-p         µx       )     1        T     (xt-p        µx)       (xt-p       µx    )
                                                                         T                                                        
              +                                                                 

                      T              zt -1           -                                           -                     -                   ×

                             t =p+1                                             t =p+1

                     1         T

                 ×            (xt-p - µx) t + op (1) .

                        T t=p+1

Furthermore,     it     is  shown     along       the  lines       of  the      discussion       of  T -1     T        zt -1  (xt-p     -  µx)  that

                                                                                                                  p+1

          1        T                     1        T    (xt-1 - µx) t + op (1) .
                        zt-1t = 
                                                

          

            T t=p+1                      T t=p+1

for  both    1   T           zt -1 t     and     1   T             (xt-p        -  µx) t ,       Theorem       24.3    in  Davidson        (1994)    is  easily   checked       to  apply      (see
                                                
                     t =p+1                              t =p+1
              T                                   T
Lemma A.1 for the convergence of the sample covariance matrices); since (xt-p - µx) t and zt-1t are orthogonal thanks

to   the  uncorrelatedness           of  t  and      t ,  the      term   1        T             zt -1  (t    +  ¨t    - ^ ^t )  is     asymptotically            normal  with      mean       zero
                                                                         
                                                                                       t =p+1
                                                                           T

                                                                                                 456
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                        Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

           Table B.3

           Empirical rejection frequencies of right-sided tests under breaks in variance and persistence, positive short-run AR parameter

           (a1 = 0.5) and error correlation of -0.95.

           c (s)                   2 = 2                            tivx      ~tiµvx0     ~tiµvx1    ~tiµvx2   ~tiµvx3       tivx      ~tiµvx0       ~tiµvx1      ~tiµvx2  ~tiµvx3

                                                                    T = 200                                                  T = 500

                                   1                                0.117 0.060 0.142 0.056 0.070 0.116 0.064 0.145 0.059 0.069

                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.145 0.067 0.158 0.064 0.078 0.145 0.065 0.161 0.064 0.070

           -5                      1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.210 0.075 0.221 0.078 0.087 0.203 0.070 0.220 0.070 0.075

                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.182 0.076 0.241 0.058 0.087 0.183 0.068 0.245 0.054 0.071

                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.142 0.065 0.182 0.060 0.076 0.134 0.062 0.175 0.054 0.067

           5 + 5I (s > 0.5)        1                                0.111     0.061       0.148      0.057     0.073         0.110        0.063      0.147        0.058    0.069
                                                                    0.136     0.067       0.153      0.068     0.077         0.136        0.063      0.154        0.068    0.067
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.189     0.077       0.209      0.077     0.087         0.183        0.069      0.205        0.072    0.074
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7)                 0.188     0.083       0.251      0.062     0.095         0.184        0.076      0.250        0.057    0.080
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.139     0.069       0.186      0.060     0.081         0.130        0.067      0.180        0.055    0.071
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

           5 + 20I (s > 0.5)       1                                0.102     0.063       0.143      0.056     0.076         0.100        0.063      0.142        0.052    0.069
                                                                    0.121     0.067       0.146      0.068     0.077         0.121        0.060      0.145        0.067    0.064
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.152     0.071       0.175      0.067     0.081         0.146        0.063      0.173        0.064    0.068
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7)                 0.193     0.094       0.254      0.059     0.106         0.186        0.084      0.254        0.055    0.088
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.133     0.075       0.182      0.054     0.086         0.124        0.069      0.177        0.049    0.073
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

                                   1                                0.088 0.060 0.104 0.044 0.070 0.081 0.056 0.094 0.040 0.061

                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.120 0.064 0.128 0.061 0.072 0.114 0.063 0.124 0.062 0.067

           20                      1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.185 0.082 0.194 0.074 0.089 0.181 0.073 0.192 0.067 0.076

                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.157 0.076 0.187 0.043 0.082 0.164 0.075 0.192 0.040 0.078

                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.113 0.067 0.137 0.047 0.076 0.104 0.062 0.127 0.043 0.067

           25 - 5I (s > 0.5)       1                                0.090     0.058       0.105      0.045     0.069         0.084        0.057      0.098        0.042    0.061
                                                                    0.123     0.064       0.132      0.062     0.074         0.118        0.063      0.128        0.061    0.067
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.194     0.083       0.204      0.076     0.093         0.190        0.074      0.200        0.070    0.077
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7)                 0.153     0.073       0.183      0.042     0.080         0.160        0.072      0.189        0.040    0.075
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.113     0.066       0.138      0.049     0.074         0.106        0.062      0.128        0.043    0.066
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

            25 - 20I (s > 0.5)     1                                0.103     0.056       0.108      0.049     0.069         0.105        0.060      0.109        0.049    0.064
           Note: See Table 5.                                       0.141     0.062       0.145      0.060     0.075         0.141        0.067      0.144        0.064    0.070
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.233     0.086       0.236      0.082     0.098         0.226        0.079      0.230        0.075    0.083
                                   1 + 8I (s > 0.7)                 0.134     0.059       0.153      0.036     0.067         0.138        0.056      0.153        0.034    0.059
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.3)                 0.118     0.055       0.126      0.046     0.066         0.113        0.052      0.116        0.041    0.056
                                   9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

and asymptotic variance

        1                                                                                            1

        0 v2 (s) 2 (s) ds +  2 (0 . . . p-1) -1 (0 . . . p-1) v4 (s) ds.

            0                                                                                           0

Checking   that    1   T           zt2-1 ^ t2  +  1  ^  2 Q^ T  estimates     the         above    asymptotic         variance     consistently               is  straightforward        and  we
                   T                              T
                           t =p+1

omit the details. Extending the derivations to alternative mean adjustment schemes in the autoregression delivering the

residuals ^t is standard in the (locally) stationary case and we omit the details. 

Proof of Theorem 3.2. Standard OLS algebra shows that the residuals ^t are numerically the same as in the autoregressive

representation of xt if resorting to the error-correction representation, which is more convenient with near-integration.

                                      ()
We may thus write ^t := ¨t - ^ -  x¨t-1 - (^ - ) x¨t-p+1 with x¨t-p+1 stacking the first p - 1 lags of xt - x

and     :=      1  ( - 1)    (the  vector               depends           on  all      autoregressive          coefficients        of  xt ,     but  its      exact        value    is  irrelevant
                

here).

We      have      the  same  representation             as      in  (A.11),   but,     since       T           zt -1  =  Op  (T 1/2+)        (see    Lemma        A.4      item     3),  we  have

                                                                                                       t =p+1

that  T           zt-1¯  =  T           zt-1¯        =  Op      (T )  such    that,       with       <  1,

          t =p+1                t =p+1

        T                                               T                              T                                               T

         zt-1 (¨t +  ¨t - ^ ^t ) =  zt-1t -   zt-1 (^t - t ) - (^ -  )  zt-1^t + op (T 1/2+/2) ,

        t =p+1                                       t =p+1                   t =p+1                                               t =p+1

                                                                                          457
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                                                                            Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

             Table B.4

             Empirical rejection frequencies of two-sided tests under breaks in variance and persistence, positive short-run AR parameter

             (a1 = 0.5) and error correlation of -0.95.

               c (s)                       2 = 2                     tivx        ~tiµvx0       ~tiµvx1   ~tiµvx2      ~tiµvx3        tivx   ~tiµvx0       ~tiµvx1       ~tiµvx2         ~tiµvx3

                                                                     T = 200                                                         T = 500

                                           1                         0.061 0.032 0.075 0.047 0.038 0.066 0.035 0.080 0.054 0.038

                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.092 0.035 0.094 0.040 0.042 0.091 0.037 0.098 0.039 0.040

               -5                          1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.160 0.050 0.166 0.053 0.056 0.152 0.040 0.159 0.044 0.044

                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.125 0.045 0.158 0.115 0.049 0.126 0.037 0.159 0.125 0.039

                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.081 0.034 0.104 0.055 0.039 0.078 0.032 0.096 0.060 0.033

               5 + 5I (s > 0.5)            1                         0.063       0.034         0.078     0.060        0.039          0.066    0.037       0.082         0.066           0.040
                                                                     0.095       0.040         0.097     0.048        0.045          0.093    0.037       0.096         0.044           0.038
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3)          0.152       0.051         0.159     0.054        0.055          0.141    0.041       0.152         0.045           0.043
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.7)          0.132       0.050         0.172     0.129        0.054          0.134    0.041       0.171         0.137           0.043
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3)          0.081       0.037         0.112     0.066        0.043          0.081    0.036       0.107         0.072           0.037
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

               5 + 20I (s > 0.5)           1                         0.063       0.037         0.081     0.073        0.043          0.059    0.041       0.078         0.077           0.042
                                                                     0.092       0.044         0.098     0.055        0.048          0.086    0.041       0.094         0.052           0.041
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3)          0.128       0.052         0.140     0.056        0.054          0.125    0.046       0.135         0.052           0.047
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.7)          0.142       0.055         0.180     0.140        0.061          0.140    0.047       0.177         0.144           0.049
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3)          0.084       0.043         0.113     0.072        0.048          0.086    0.042       0.107         0.083           0.043
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

                                           1                         0.057 0.043 0.062 0.066 0.045 0.057 0.046 0.062 0.072 0.047

                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3) 0.093 0.046 0.091 0.052 0.049 0.088 0.045 0.090 0.048 0.046

               20                          1 + 8I (s > 0.7) 0.167 0.057 0.168 0.058 0.062 0.162 0.050 0.163 0.050 0.051

                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3) 0.146 0.061 0.163 0.147 0.063 0.158 0.054 0.170 0.150 0.054

                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7) 0.086 0.048 0.096 0.081 0.051 0.086 0.048 0.092 0.086 0.049

               25 - 5I (s > 0.5)           1                         0.058       0.042         0.063     0.061        0.045          0.059    0.044       0.061         0.067           0.045
                                                                     0.093       0.045         0.091     0.050        0.048          0.089    0.044       0.089         0.047           0.045
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3)          0.175       0.058         0.172     0.058        0.062          0.166    0.049       0.165         0.047           0.050
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.7)          0.140       0.059         0.157     0.142        0.061          0.153    0.053       0.163         0.147           0.052
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3)          0.085       0.047         0.093     0.076        0.050          0.084    0.047       0.090         0.082           0.047
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

               25 - 20I (s > 0.5)          1                         0.059       0.035         0.061     0.044        0.039          0.061    0.041       0.063         0.048           0.042
               Note: See Table 5.                                    0.092       0.039         0.087     0.040        0.043          0.092    0.042       0.092         0.041           0.044
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.3)          0.188       0.058         0.187     0.056        0.063          0.178    0.047       0.177         0.044           0.049
                                           1 + 8I (s > 0.7)          0.115       0.052         0.122     0.123        0.051          0.117    0.049       0.121         0.132           0.048
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.3)          0.071       0.040         0.075     0.057        0.041          0.070    0.044       0.071         0.062           0.043
                                           9 - 8I (s > 0.7)

yet  zt  is  now      a  mildly  integrated            variable.     Still,   Lemmas           A.3      and   A.4     show     that             1      T           zt -1 t          is  asymptotically
                                                                                                                                           T 1/2+/2
                                                                                                                                                           t =p+1

normal      with      variance  2     1    v2  (s)     2   (s)  ds,  whereas              the  remaining          term    can       be  re-written        as

                                        0

             1             T                                      1             T                       ()                        1           T
         T 1/2+/2                                             T 1/2+/2
                                zt-1 (^t       t )                                        zt-1x¨t-1 ^ -  - T 1/2+/2                          zt-1x¨t-p+1 (^ - ) .

                                           -           =   -

                      t =p+1                                                t =p+1                                                         t =p+1

                                           ()
In the limit, this vanishes because ^ -  is Op (T -1) and (^ - ) = Op (T -1/2) as standard analysis of near-unit root

autoregressions          shows,  while,       at   the  same    time,      T              zt -1 x¨ t -1  =        Op  (T 1+)   (see        Lemma     A.4.3)        and  we       only   need          to  show

                                                                               t =p+1

that  T            zt -1 x¨ t -p+1    =    Op (T ) .      This  is   known       to       be   the      case      when    zt -1     is  a  near-integrated         or   stationary                    variable;

          t =p+1

we   discuss   here      the    case  where        zt  is  an   IVX  instrument.               Examining          T               zt-1x¨t-1        as  a  representative                for      the  whole

                                                                                                                      t =p+2

vector,

         1     T                        1       T                          1       T                              1     T      zt-1x,
                      zt-1x¨t-1 = T                    zt-1vt-1 + T 2
                                                                                                                      

         T   t =p+1                           t =p+1                          t =p+1      ct zt-1xt-2 - T             t =p+1

                                              zt           xt                                                                       (  1   T                      )
                                                T            T                                                                         T2
it is easily shown that both                       and          are  uniformly            L2-bounded,             hence        E               t =p+1  ct zt-1xt-2               =  O (1). Moreover,

1  T           zt -1 vt -1  is  itself  Op (1),     which       can  be       shown       along         the  lines    of       the  discussion       for  1    qt-2xt-p                 in       the  proof  of
T                                                                                                                                                         T
       t =p+1

Theorem      3.1,     while   T            zt-1x        =  Op   (T )       like  above.        This     completes         the       result  for      residuals     from          an     OLS-demeaned

                                  t =p+1

autoregression.

   Should one demean by subtracting the initial value, i.e. work with x¨t = xt - x1 in the autoregression (but not in
the predictive regression), we note that x¨t = x¨t , and also that the weak convergence of the levels xt is not affected;

                                                                                               458
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues                                                     Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

neither are the convergence rates of the coefficients of the autoregression. The result then follows immediately. Should
one consider recursive demeaning in the autoregression, we note that only the levels require this in the error-correction
representation, which then does not affect the convergence rates of the estimators (cf. Shin and So, 2001), as required. 

Proof of Theorem 3.3. Since the residual effect of t and t is easily checked to be negligible on the standard error

estimator, the correction QT is negligible under the local alternative as well and we have for the residual-augmented IVX
t-statistic that,

t~iv1x     T           zt -1  (t  +  1x¨t-1)

        =      t =p+1                           +  op  (1)

                
           T
                              zt2-1 t2
               t =p+1

           T           zt-1¨t             1     T           zt -1 x¨ t -1

               t =p+1                  b  T 1+      t =p+1                 + op (1) .

        =                           +     

           T           zt2-1 t2             1          T       zt2-1 t2
                                                       t =p+1
               t =p+1                     T 1+

The first summand on the r.h.s. converges to a standard normal distribution, Z; note that Z would indeed be independent

of the limit process of the regressor xt since zt-1t and t are orthogonal. Thus, the result follows with Lemma A.4, items
1 and 3 upon noting that demeaning t has no asymptotic effect. 

Appendix B. Additional tables

See Tables B.1­B.4.

References

Amado, C., Teräsvirta, T., 2013. Modelling volatility by variance decomposition. J. Econometrics 175 (2), 142­153.
Amihud, Y., Hurvich, C.M., 2004. Predictive regressions: A reduced-bias estimation method. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 39 (4), 813­841.
Amihud, Y., Hurvich, C.M., Wang, Y., 2009. Multiple-predictor regressions: Hypothesis testing. Rev. Financ. Stud. 22 (1), 413­434.
Amihud, Y., Hurvich, C.M., Wang, Y., 2010. Predictive regression with order-p autoregressive predictors. J. Empir. Financ. 17 (3), 513­525.
Avramov, D., Barras, L., Kosowski, R., 2013. Hedge fund return predictability under the magnifying glass. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 48 (4), 1057­1083.
Bali, T.G., 2008. The intertemporal relation between expected returns and risk. J. Financ. Econom. 87 (1), 101­131.
Breitung, J., Demetrescu, M., 2015. Instrumental variable and variable addition based inference in predictive regressions. J. Econometrics 187 (1),

     358­375.
Cai, Z., Wang, Y., 2014. Corrigendum to ``testing predictive regression models with nonstationary regressors'' [J. Econometrics 178 (2014) 4­14]. J.

     Econometrics 181 (2), 194.
Campbell, J.Y., 2008. Viewpoint: Estimating the equity premium. Canad. J. Econ./Rev. Canad. Écon. 41 (1), 1­21.
Campbell, D., Morris, D., Gallin, J., Martin, R., 2009. What moves housing markets: a variance decomposition of the rent-price ratio. J. Urban Econ.

     66 (2), 90­102.
Campbell, J.Y., Yogo, M., 2006. Efficient tests of stock return predictability. J. Financ. Econom. 81 (1), 27­60.
Camponovo, L., 2015. Differencing transformations and inference in predictive regression models. Econometric Theory 31 (6), 1331­1358.
Cavaliere, G., 2004. Unit root tests under time-varying variances. Econometric Rev. 23 (3), 259­292.
Cavaliere, G., Rahbek, A., Taylor, A.M.R., 2010. Testing for co-integration in vector autoregressions with non-stationary volatility. J. Econometrics 158

     (1), 7­24.
Cavanagh, C.L., Elliott, G., Stock, J.H., 1995. Inference in models with nearly integrated regressors. Econometric Theory (ISSN: 0266-4666) 11 (5),

     1131­1147.
Chang, Y., Park, J.Y., 2002. On the asymptotics of ADF tests for unit roots. Econometric Rev. 21 (4), 431­447.
Chun, S., 2009. Are International Equity Market Returns Predictable?. Boston University working paper.
Davidson, J., 1994. Stochastic Limit Theory: An Introduction for Econometricians. Oxford university press.
Demetrescu, M., 2014a. Corrigendum to ``Testing Predictive Regression Models with Nonstationary Regressors'' [J. Econometrics 178 (2014) 4­14].

     Working Paper, University of Bonn.
Demetrescu, M., 2014b. Enhancing the local power of IVX-based tests in predictive regressions. Econom. Lett. 124 (2), 269­273.
Demetrescu, M., Georgiev, I., Rodrigues, P.M.M., Taylor, R., 2020a. Extensions to IVX Methods of Inference for Return Predictability. Mimeo.
Demetrescu, M., Georgiev, I., Rodrigues, P.M.M., Taylor, R., 2020b. Testing for episodic predictability in stock returns. J. Econometrics forthcoming.
Demetrescu, M., Hosseinkouchack, M., 2020. Finite-sample size control of IVX-based tests in predictive regressions. Econometric Theory forthcoming.
Elliott, G., Rothenberg, T.J., Stock, J., 1996. Efficient tests for an autoregressive unit root.. Econometrica 64, 813­836.
Elliott, G., Stock, J.H., 1994. Inference in time series regression when the order of integration of a regressor is unknown. Econometric Theory (ISSN:

     0266-4666) 10 (3­4), 672­700.
Engsted, T., Pedersen, T.Q., 2015. Predicting returns and rent growth in the housing market using the rent-price ratio: Evidence from the OECD

     countries. J. Int. Money Finance 53, 257­275.
Georgiev, I., Harvey, D.I., Leybourne, S.J., Taylor, A.M.R., 2019. A bootstrap stationarity test for predictive regression invalidity. J. Bus. Econom. Statist.

     37 (3), 528­541.
Ghysels, E., Plazzi, A., Torous, W., Valkanov, R., 2013. Forecasting real estate prices. In: Elliott, G., Timmermann, A. (Eds.), Handbook of Economic

     Forecasting, Vol.2. pp. 509­580.
Gonzalo, J., Pitarakis, J.-Y., 2012. Regime-specific predictability in predictive regressions. J. Bus. Econom. Statist. 30 (2), 229­241.
Guidolin, M., Timmermann, A., 2006. An econometric model of nonlinear dynamics in the joint distribution of stock and bond returns. J. Appl.

     Econometrics 21 (1), 1­22.
Hansen, B.E., 1992. Convergence to stochastic integrals for dependent heterogeneous processes. Econometric Theory 8 (4), 489­500.
Hansen, B.E., 2010. Averaging estimators for autoregressions with a near unit root. J. Econometrics 158 (1), 142­155.

                                                                                                        459
M. Demetrescu and P.M.M. Rodrigues       Journal of Econometrics 227 (2022) 429­460

Im, K.S., Schmidt, P., 2008. More efficient estimation under non-normality when higher moments do not depend on the regressors, using residual
     augmented least squares. J. Econometrics 144 (1), 219­233.

Jansson, M., Moreira, M.J., 2006. Optimal inference in regression models with nearly integrated regressors. Econometrica (ISSN: 1468-0262) 74 (3),
     681­714.

Johannes, M., Korteweg, A., Polson, N., 2014. Sequential learning, predictability, and optimal portfolio returns. J. Finance 69 (2), 611­644.
Kishor, N., Morley, J., 2015. What factors drive the price-rent ratio for the housing market? A modified present-value analysis. J. Econ. Dyn. Control

     58, 235­249.
Kostakis, A., Magdalinos, T., Stamatogiannis, M.P., 2015. Robust econometric inference for stock return predictability. Rev. Financ. Stud. 28 (5),

     1506­1553.
Lee, J.H., 2016. Predictive quantile regression with persistent covariates: IVX-QR approach. J. Econometrics 192 (1), 105­118.
Lewellen, J., 2004. Predicting returns with financial ratios. J. Financ. Econom. 74 (2), 209­235.
Magdalinos, T., Phillips, P.C.B., 2009. Limit theory for cointegrated systems with moderately integrated and moderately explosive regressors.

     Econometric Theory (ISSN: 0266-4666) 25 (2), 482­526.
Mankiw, G.N., Shapiro, M.D., 1986. Do we reject too often?: Small sample properties of tests of rational expectations models. Econom. Lett. 20 (2),

     139­145.
Maynard, A., Shimotsu, K., 2009. Covariance-based orthogonality tests for regressors with unknown persistence. Econometric Theory 25 (1), 63­116.
Nelson, C.R., Kim, M.J., 1993. Predictable stock returns: The role of small sample bias. J. Finance 48 (2), 641­661.
Phillips, P., 1991. Optimal inference in cointegrated systems. Econometrica 59 (2), 283­306.
Phillips, P.C.B., 2015. Pitfalls and possibilities in predictive regression. J. Financ. Econom. 13 (3), 521­555.
Phillips, P.C.B., Lee, J.H., 2013. Predictive regression under various degrees of persistence and robust long-horizon regression. J. Econometrics 177 (2),

     250­264.
Phillips, P.C.B., Xu, K.L., 2006. Inference in autoregression under heteroskedasticity. J. Time Series Anal. 27 (2), 289­308.
Plazzi, A., Torous, W., Valkanov, R., 2010. Expected returns and expected growth in rents of commercial real estate. Rev. Financ. Stud. 23 (9),

     3469­3519.
Rodrigues, P.M.M., Rubia, A., 2011. A Class of Robust Tests in Augmented Predictive Regressions. Working Paper 26/2011, Banco de Portugal.
Shin, D.W., So, B.S., 2001. Recursive mean adjustment for unit root tests. J. Time Series Anal. 22 (5), 595­612.
So, B.S., Shin, D.W., 1999. Recursive mean adjustment in time-series inferences. Statist. Probab. Lett. 43 (1), 65­73.
Stambaugh, R.F., 1986. Bias in Regressions with Lagged Stochastic Regressors. CRSP Working Paper No 156, University of Chicago.
Stambaugh, R.F., 1999. Predictive regressions. J. Financ. Econom. 54 (3), 375­421.
Teräsvirta, T., Zhao, Z., 2011. Stylized facts of return series, robust estimates and three popular models of volatility. Appl. Financial Econ. 21 (1­2),

     67­94.
Westerlund, J., Karabiyik, H., Narayan, P., 2017. Testing for predictability in panels with general predictors. J. Appl. Econometrics 32 (3), 554­574.

                                    460
