arXiv:2302.05193v1 [econ.EM] 10 Feb 2023   Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive
                                               Regression Models with Persistent Covariates

                                                                           Christis Katsouris
                                                                       University of Southampton

                                                                                       JOB MARKET PAPER

                                                                   First version: November 13, 2021
                                                                   This version: November 13, 2021

                                                                                                 Abstract

                                                      We propose an econometric environment for structural break detection in non-
                                                  stationary quantile predictive regressions. We establish the limit distributions for
                                                  a class of Wald and fluctuation type statistics based on both the ordinary least
                                                  squares estimator and the endogenous instrumental regression estimator proposed
                                                  by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). Although the asymptotic distribution of these
                                                  test statistics appears to depend on the chosen estimator, the IVX based tests
                                                  are shown to be asymptotically nuisance parameter-free regardless of the degree of
                                                  persistence and consistent under local alternatives. The finite-sample performance
                                                  of both tests is evaluated via simulation experiments. An empirical application to
                                                  house pricing index returns demonstrates the practicality of the proposed break
                                                  tests for regression quantiles of nonstationary time series data.

                                                      JEL classification: C12, C22
                                                      Keywords: Quantile predictive regression model, persistence, local to unity,
                                                  IVX instrument, structural break tests, weak convergence, brownian bridge.

                                              I would like to thank Jose Olmo, Tassos Magdalinos and Jean-Yves Pitarakis for guidance, support
                                          and continuous encouragement throughout the PhD programme. Furthermore, this study has been
                                          inspired by the work of Peter C. B. Phillips in time series econometrics. The author acknowledge
                                          the use of the Iridis 5 HPC Facility and associated support services at the University of Southampton
                                          in the completion of this work. Financial support from the VC PhD scholarship of the University of
                                          Southampton is also gratefully acknowledged. All the usual disclaimers apply.

                                             Parts of this paper are derived from my Ph.D. thesis at the University of Southampton with title:
                                          "Aspects of Estimation and Inference for Predictive Regression Models".

                                              Ph.D Candidate, Department of Economics, University of Southampton, Southampton, SO17 1BJ,
                                          UK. E-mail Address: C.Katsouris@soton.ac.uk. Website: sites.google.com/view/christiskatsouris

                                                                                                  i
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Contents

1 Introduction                                             1

1.1 Literature Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

2 Econometric Environment and Testing Problem              6

2.1 Econometric Model and Assumptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

2.1.1 Quantile Predictive Regression Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

2.2 Estimation Methodology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

      2.2.1 OLS based estimation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
      2.2.2 IVX based estimation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.3 Testing Hypotheses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

3 Testing for structural break for a fixed quantile level  15

3.1 Preliminary Setting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

3.1.1 OLS based functionals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
3.1.2 IVX based functionals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

3.2 Invariance principles for partial sum processes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

3.3 Test Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
      3.3.1 Fluctuation type tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

3.3.2 Wald type tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

3.4 Asymptotic Theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29

3.4.1 OLS-Wald test statistic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
3.4.2 IVX-Wald test statistic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

4 Monte Carlo Experiments                                  35

4.1 Experimental Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

4.2 Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

4.3 Simulation Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

5 Empirical Application                                    38

5.1 Data Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38

5.2 Data Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39

6 Conclusion                                               40

                           ii
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7 APPENDIX                41

7.1 Proofs of asymptotic theory results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

7.1.1 Proof of Corollary 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

7.1.2 Proof of Corollary 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

7.1.3 Proof of Corollary 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48

7.1.4 Alternative IVZ-QR estimator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

7.1.5 Proof of Lemma 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
7.1.6 Proof of Proposition 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

7.1.7 Proof of Proposition 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55

7.1.8 Proof of Theorem 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
7.1.9 Proof of Corollary 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68

7.2 Asymptotic results on stochastic integrals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

                     iii
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

                     Notation and Abbreviations

    xy            max {x, y}
    xy            min {x, y}
                  equality by definition
      :=          equivalent statement
                  integer part of the argument
     .            absolute value of the argument
     |.|          indicator function
     1.           expectation operator
    E[ . ]        probability operator
    P( . )        variance operator
   Var ( . )

   OP ( . )       Order of convergence
       D          Convergence in distribution
       P          Convergence in probability
                  Weakly convergence argument
                  Skorokhod topology
   D ([0, 1])

SQonls(, ) sup-Q test based on OLS estimator

SQinvx(, ) sup-Q test based on IVX estimator

S  W  ols  (,  )  sup-Wald test based on OLS estimator
      n

S  W  ivx  (,  )  sup-Wald test based on IVX estimator
      n

Wnols(, ) (self-normalized) sup-Wald test based on OLS estimator

Wnivx(, ) (self-normalized) sup-Wald test based on IVX estimator

DQonls(, ) double sup-Q test based on OLS estimator

DQnivx(, ) double sup-Q test based on IVX estimator

DWnols(, ) double sup-Wald test based on OLS estimator

DW    ivx  (,  )  double sup-Wald test based on IVX estimator
      n

                                                  iv
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

· Summary: We propose a set of structural break tests for testing the null hypoth-
   esis of no parameter instability in nonstationary quantile predictive regressions
   models. More specifically, we derive the asymptotic distribution of Wald type
   and fluctuation type statistics based on both the OLS and IVX estimators. We
   show that the limiting distribution of both the fluctuation and Wald test statistics
   under high persistence weakly convergent into a nonstandard and nonpivotal lim-
   iting distributions. In those cases, the underline stochastic processes depend on
   the innovation distribution and cannot be identified with conventional processes
   commonly employed in the structural break literature such as a Brownian motion
   or Brownian bridge in the topological space.

· Related Literature: The relevant literature to the econometric environment
   studied in the paper is the framework of predictive regression models proposed by
   Phillips and Magdalinos (2009), Kostakis et al. (2015) and Lee (2016) who extend
   the asymptotic theory to the case of quantile predictive regression models. Further
   relevant studies include the framework proposed by Xiao (2009) for the quantile
   cointegrating regression model as well as the paper of Qu (2008) who propose a
   framework for break testing in regression quantiles.

· Research Objective: Our main research objective is to investigate the imple-
   mentation of structural break tests in quantile predictive regressions under the
   assumption of nonstationarity, that is, regressors being generated as near unit
   root processes. To do this, we study the asymptotic distribution of the testing
   procedures and evaluate their statistical performance via Monte Carlo simulations.

· Research Contributions: To the best of our knowledge the proposed frame-
   work in this paper that unifies the persistence properties of regressors in quantile
   predictive regression models and structural break testing is a novel aspect not
   previously examined in the literature. Our contributions in the literature is a
   statistical framework for testing for structural breaks in the relation between the
   regressand and the predictors based on a conditional quantile functional form.

· Research Findings: The main research findings of our study are summarized.
   We derive the limit distributions of structural break tests suitable for quantile
   predictive regression models with regressors being either high persistent or mildly
   integrated. We focus on fluctuation type statistics as well as Wald type statistics
   which are constructed based on either the OLS or IVX estimators. Our tests can be
   used as diagnostic tools for break detection when estimating predictive regressions
   under nonstationarity based on a conditional quantile functional form.

                     v
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

1 Introduction

Time series predictability is a research question that sparked the development of var-
ious methodologies for estimation and inference in predictive regression models. Re-
lated studies include Jansson and Moreira (2006), Mikusheva (2007), Phillips (2014),
Cai and Wang (2014), Kostakis et al. (2015), Kasparis et al. (2015), Gonzalo and Pitarakis
(2012, 2017), Ren et al. (2019), Demetrescu et al. (2020), Yang et al. (2020), Georgiev et al.
(2021), Andersen and Varneskov (2021), Harvey et al. (2021) as well as Dou and Müller
(2021) among others1. The aforementioned frameworks operate under the general as-
sumption of a stable relation between the predictant and the predictors of the model.
However, the possible presence of parameter instability under these conditions require
a different treatment (e.g., see Pitarakis (2017) and Georgiev et al. (2018)). Thus, to
derive limits for structural break tests suitable for predictive regressions, necessitate to
employ certain regularity conditions and invariance principles of partial sum processes as
in Phillips and Magdalinos (2007, 2009), to obtain stochastic integral approximations.

Most of the current literature focuses on detecting structural break in the conditional
mean of the distribution of f (yt|xt) or f (yt|xt-1) where xt is assumed to follow a near
unit root process such as in Cai et al. (2015), Georgiev et al. (2018) and Katsouris
(2021), leaving the conditional quantile distribution vastly unexplored. Consequently,
this paper addresses these issues by developing a framework suitable for structural break
testing for quantile regressions under nonstationarity which has not seen much atten-
tion. Specifically, we build on related studies such as Lee (2016) and Fan and Lee (2019)
who propose a framework for estimation and inference in quantile predictive regressions
as well as the study of Qu (2008) who focus on break testing procedures for regres-
sion quantiles. More precisely, the latter approach studies a linear quantile model with
stationary covariates, while we consider the quantile predictive regression model with
possibly nonstationary predictors as in Lee (2016). Another related study is presented
by Aue et al. (2017) in the context of piecewise quantile autoregressions. Therefore,
proposing tests which bridge the gap between these two approaches is a further develop-
ment of the current toolkit while the local-to-unity theory proposed by the seminal work
of Phillips (1987a,b); Phillips and Perron (1988) can facilitate the asymptotic theory.

Consider the -th conditional quantile of yt which is defined as following

                     Qy (|x) = Fy-|x1(|x) := inf s : Fy|x(s|x)    (1.1)

Specifically, using the conditional quantile function (1.1) (see, Kiefer (1967)) to be the
underline functional form for the predictive regression model then the induced econo-
metric environment permits to investigate the presence of quantile predictability.

    1The problem of distorted statistical inference in predictive regression models under nearly integrated
predictors has been also reported in previous studies such as Elliott and Stock (1994), Elliott (2011),
Campbell and Yogo (2006) and references therein.

                     1
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

As a result, the parameter vector of the predictive regression model is quantile dependent
for some fixed quantile level within a compact set. In practise, the parameter vector of a
quantile regression can be estimated as the unique solution of the following unconstrained
optimization problem (see, Koenker and Portnoy (1987) and Portnoy (1991))

                                       n  (1.2)

                     arg min  yt - xt-1b
                        bRp t=1

where (u)  u ( - 1 {u < 0}), is the check function as defined by Koenker and Bassett
(1978), b is some parameter vector and xt-1 is the lagged regressor of the model. Our
research interest is on the asymptotic behaviour of the parameter estimators of b under
both the null hypothesis of no parameter instability as well as under the alternative
hypothesis of structural break at an unknown break-point location within the full sample.

The structural break literature has various applications for different modelling condi-
tions, however there are currently limited studies related to break testing in quantile
time series models even under the assumption of stationarity and ergodicity such as in
the seminal paper of Andrews (1993) for linear models. Furthermore, when consider-
ing predictive regression models inference regarding structural break involves deriving
nonstandard asymptotic theory due to the presence of the nuisance coefficient of per-
sistence. More precisely, testing based on conventional estimation methods (such as
OLS-based tests) has been proved to have size distortions for persistent regressors (e.g.,
see Georgiev et al. (2018) and Katsouris (2021)). Our study is considered as a uni-
fied framework for structural break detection in quantile predictive regressions (see, Lee
(2016) and Fan and Lee (2019)) which encompasses regressor properties such as high
persistent, mildly integrated or stationary under certain parameter space restrictions on
the persistence parameters. In particular, the proposed tests can statistically evaluate
for breaks in the model coefficients at both fixed and multiple quantiles of the underline
conditional quantile distribution. We investigate the asymptotic theory and implemen-
tation of both Wald type statistics as in Andrews (1993) as well as fluctuation type
statistics as in Qu (2008) but within the setting of nonstationary quantile predictive
regressions.

Our contributions are threefold. Firstly, we study the estimation problem of quantile
predictive regressions with multiple predictors assumed to be generated as either near
unit root or mildly integrated processes. We construct quantile predictability Wald
statistics under the null of no predictability and derive the asymptotic distributions (as
in Lee (2016)). Secondly, we propose a structural break testing procedure for quan-
tile predictive regressions which permits testing for the presence of breaks at the tails.
Thirdly, we examine the statistical performance of these tests for detecting parameter
instability in the coefficients of quantile predictive regressions with extensive simulation
experiments of empirical size.

                     2
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Under the null hypothesis of no structural break the specific weakly convergence ar-
gument permits to establish convergence to stochastic integral approximations defined
with respect to a two-parameter process; limit results employed to derive the asymptotic
distributions of fluctuation type statistics. Similarly, for the Wald type statistics we em-
ploy the asymptotic theory developed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Lee (2016).
Thus, we introduce invariance principles for partial sum processes of matrix moments
based on these functionals to obtain asymptotic results for the proposed econometric
environment.

Throughout the paper, we assume that all random elements are defined within a prob-
ability space denoted with the triple (, F , P). All limits are taken as n  , where
n is the sample size. Denote with D ([0, 1]) to be the set of functions on [0, 1] that
are right continuous and have left limits, equipped with the Skorokhod metric. Then,
the symbol "  " is used to denote the weak convergence of the associated probability
measures as n  . The symbol D and P are employed to denote convergence in dis-
tribution and convergence in probability respectively. Moreover, we denote with OP(.)
and oP(.) the stochastic order of convergence in probability (see, Billingsley (1968)).
In terms of vector and matrix notation, for any random matrix X, X p denotes the
Lp-norm, that is, X p = (E X p)1/p where p is some positive constant. The proposed
test statistics are constructed based on the Euclidean norm. Moreover, we employ the
term stationary regressor meaning a regressor of the predictive regression model which
is generated from the local-to-unity specification that satisfies x = 0 and |1 + ci| < 1 i.

The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the econometric environment of
the quantile predictive regression model along with main assumptions, the estimation
methodology as well as the testing hypotheses of interest. Section 3 presents the testing
procedure and asymptotic theory of structural break testing for a fixed quantile level.
Section 4 investigates the finite sample performance of the proposed tests via Monte
Carlo experiments. Section 5 illustrates the implementation of of the proposed testing
procedures with an empirical application. Section 6 concludes. Proofs of main limit
results can be found in the Appendix (see Section 7).

1.1 Literature Review

Estimation and inference with quantile models has been proposed to the literature with
the seminal work of Koenker and Bassett (1978) and Koenker and Bassett (1982). In
particular, the uniform Bahadur-type representation established by Koenker and Portnoy
(1987) as well as the representation of quantiles proposed by Knight (1989) (see also
Koul and Saleh (1995)) are commonly used to derive limit distributions for estimators
and test statistics. Several papers in the literature follow these methodologies that ex-
amine related aspects to the proposed estimation environment and testing procedures.

                     3
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Firstly, related literature to the problem of structural change for regression quantiles
include the studies of Su and Xiao (2008) and Qu (2008). Both frameworks develop
diagnostic tools for break detection in quantile regression models under the assumption
of stationary covariates. In the former case the alternative hypothesis of a single break
is formulated with respect to the magnitude of the break-point. In the latter case, the
author also propose a multiple break point testing procedure. Additionally, Furno (2014)
implements these quantile regression based statistics using the methodology proposed
by Chow (1960) which implies testing for break at a known location in the sample.

A different perspective is presented by Hoga (2018) who consider detecting for breaks
using tail dependence measures (see also Hoga (2017)2) based on an empirical estima-
tor of extremal dependence. An extension of the method to an alternative hypothesis
with multiple breaks is also examined. All aforementioned procedures correspond to
structural break tests suitable for quantile models3 while in our study we focus on im-
plementing testing procedures specifically for quantile predictive regression models in
which the time series properties of predictors are modelled with the nuisance param-
eter of persistence. In particular, a separate autoregressive model with a local unit
root coefficient matrix is used to model the unknown degree of persistence which im-
plies that conventional approaches for deriving large sample theory are no longer valid.
However, the fluctuation based tests implemented by Qu (2008) for break detection in
quantile models with stationary covariates provides a suitable econometric environment
for investigating the effect of nonstationarity to the asymptotic distribution of the tests.

Secondly, asymptotic theory for quantile time series regressions has been examined by
Koenker and Xiao (2002, 2004, 2006) in the context of autoregressive model specifica-
tions and unit root testing4. Further applications in the time series literature include
testing procedures for threshold effects under the assumption of a conditional quantile
function as in the studies of Galvao et al. (2011, 2014) and the case of nonstationary
(nonlinear) quantile regressions by Xiao (2009), Cho et al. (2015), Li et al. (2016) and
Uematsu (2019). Moreover, Kato (2009) derives related limit results which are useful
when considering the asymptotic behaviour of quantile estimators for a wide class of
modelling approaches and econometric conditions. All these studies cover both station-
ary and nonstationary models however they operate under the null hypothesis of no
parameter instability in model parameters. Therefore, our proposed testing procedure,
is considered to be a novel contribution to the time series econometrics literature.

    2The framework proposed by Hoga (2017) considers a set of change point tests for the tail index of
random variables and contributes to the literature of nonparametric modelling methods.

    3Notice that the literature of break tests presented here differs from the literature of slope hetero-
geneity in quantile models. Related aspects to inference are Koenker and Hallock (2001), Chernozhukov
(2005), Portnoy (2012) and Escanciano and Goh (2018) which are of independent interest.

    4A unified framework for econometric inference with nearly integrated regressors and unit roots is
proposed by the seminal work of Phillips (1987a,b, 1988). Further relevant literature includes the study
of Stock (1994) who discuss aspects related to testing with unit roots and structural breaks in time
series models as well as Chapter 14 in Davidson (2000) that has additional derivations and examples.

                                                         4
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Thirdly, the proposed structural break testing methodology is closely related to the
problem of unidentified parameters under the null hypothesis which is well-known in
the econometrics and statistics literature as the Davies problem (see, Davies (1977)).
The particular aspect which is relevant to parameter admissibility has been investi-
gated in problems of estimation and testing such as in the studies of Hansen (1996),
Andrews and Ploberger (1994), Pitarakis (2004) and Elliott et al. (2015). A more re-
cent approach to the unidentified parameter problem under the null is presented by
McCloskey (2017)5. Therefore, to overcome this challenge, we employ the supremum
operator when constructing Wald type statistics. Furthermore, a nonparametric esti-
mation approach for quantile regressions such in the study of Qu and Yoon (2015), may
require different moment conditions for estimation and inference which is beyond the
scope of this paper.

Lastly, in terms of the model structure of the proposed modelling approach of the paper,
we impose standard econometric assumptions and conditions in the literature of predic-
tive regressions. More precisely, by imposing a standard martingale difference condition
on the equation innovations ut, this implies an orthogonality condition between the
innovations and the model regressors, such that Cov ut, xt = E xtE (ut|Ft-1) = 0.
Furthermore, the model structure we follow does not allow for endogeneity even though
the IVX instrumentation method implies the construction of endogenous instruments.
Specifically, as explained by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Kostakis et al. (2015),
the IVX filtration implies the construction of instrumental covariates based on informa-
tion obtained only from the regressors of the model. According to (Wang and Phillips,
2012, p. 731) the model structure would permit for the presence of endogeneity when the
equation error could be serially dependent and cross-correlated under certain moment
restrictions (see also Yang et al. (2020)6). However, the particular aspect can complicate
the derivation of the limit distributions as additional considerations will be needed, such
as to incorporate conditional heteroscedasticity, which is beyond the scope of our study
and we leave as future research related to the proposed framework.

Based on the aforementioned challenges in the literature, we are motivated to develop
an econometric framework for structural break testing in quantile predictive regressions
with persistent covariates. Overall our research objectives are concentrated around two
main pillars: (i) to introduce a new set of weak convergence results for certain partial
sums of functionals which are based on either the OLS or the IVX estimators and involve
nonstationary time series. Specifically, these functionals are instrumental for deriving
the asymptotic behaviour of the proposed test statistics; and (ii) to demonstrate the
practicality of a new set of structural break tests for detecting parameter instability.

    5Specifically, McCloskey (2017) proposes a framework for a set of flexible size-corrected critical values
construction methods that lead to tests with correct asymptotic size and desirable power properties in
testing problems with nuisance parameter under the null hypothesis.

    6Specifically, Yang et al. (2020) propose a unified IVX-AR Wald statistic that accounts for serial
correlation in the error terms of the linear predictive regression model. The IVX-AR estimator corrects
the size distortions arising from serially correlated error under the presence of high persistence.

                                                         5
Katsouris C. (2021)             Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

2 Econometric Environment and Testing Problem

2.1 Econometric Model and Assumptions

Consider the (linear) predictive regression model

                            yt =  + xt-1 + ut,           1  t  n,                       (2.1)
                            xt = nxt-1 + vt                                             (2.2)

where yt  Rn×1 is a scalar dependent variable and xt-1  Rn×p is a p-dimensional
vector of predictors such that xt is generated as a near unit root process (or local unit
root process) with an autocorrelation coefficient matrix as defined by the studies of
Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Kostakis et al. (2015) expressed as below

                            n =      Ip  +  Cp  , for some x > 0.                       (2.3)
                                            nx

where n is the sample size, and Cp = diag {c1, ..., cp} is a p × p diagonal matrix with the
coefficients of persistence ci for i = 1, ..., p. We consider that the predictors of the model
are allowed to belong only to one of the two degree of persistence as specified below

· Local Unit Root (LUR): x = 1 and ci  (-, 0),  i = 1, ..., p.
· Mildly Integrated (MI ): x  (0, 1) and ci  (-, 0),  i = 1, ..., p.

Let Ft denote the natural filtration, then for the error term of the predictive regression we
assume that E (ut|Ft-1) = 0 and E (u2t |Ft-1) = u2u. Specifically, the innovation structure
of the predictive regression model allows to impose a linear process dependence for vt,

with a conditionally homoscedastic martingale difference sequence condition such that

                                       

                            vt = jt-j, t  mds (0, ) ,

                                      j=1

with necessary conditions for the linear process representation to hold given as below

                                                                        

                   > 0,              j j <  such that o(z) = zjj.                       (2.4)

                                j=0                                j=0

Denote with et = (ut, vt), then under regularity conditions, the following invariance
principle (FCLT ) holds (see Phillips and Solo (1992))

1    nr       :=  1    nr   ut       Bun(r)     Bu(s)    := BM u2u      uv              (2.5)
  n                 n  j=1  vt       Bvn(r)     B v (s)             vu  vv (p+1)×(p+1)
          et

     t=1

where vv  Rp×p is a positive definite covariance matrix and 0 < r < 1.

                                                6
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Specifically, the individual components of the vector sequence et = (ut, vt) have partial
sums processes that weakly converge into their Brownian motion counterparts as below

                     Bun(r)  :=  1n   nr           Bu(r)    :=  N  0, ru2u             (2.6)
                                                                                       (2.7)
                                          ut

                                      t=1

                     Bvn(r)  :=  1    nr           B v (r)  :=  N  0, rvv
                                   n
                                          vt

                                      t=1

where B(r) = Bu(r), Bv(r)  being a (p×1) Brownian motion with long-run covariance
matrix ee, that is, a Gaussian vector process with almost surely continuous sample
paths. More precisely, since xt is an adapted process to Ft then in practise there exists
a correlated vector Brownian motion Bn(r) = Bun(r), Bvn(r)  such that

          nr   ut,   1n v-v1/2  nr               B(r)  =    Bu(r), Bv(r) ,      0<r<1  (2.8)
          t=1                   t=1
 1n u-u1                              vt

on D ([0, 1])2 as n  , with covariance matrix as in (2.5) implying joint convergence.
Assuming the above conditions hold, then the following local to unity principle applies
(as proposed by Phillips (1987a,b))

                    x[nr]    J c(r),                                    r              (2.9)
                       n
                                      where J c(r) = e(r-s)CpdBv(s).
                                                                      0

The functional J c(r) represents the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process7 which is employed to

derive stochastic integral approximations for the nonstationary predictive regression

model (2.1)-(2.2).  Denote   with     K c (r)  :=  vvJ c(r),    where  K c (r)  is  a  p-dimensional

                                               r
Gaussian process defined as Kc(r) = e(r-s)CpdBv(s) is the solution of Black-Scholes
                                           0
differential equation dKc(r)  cKc(r)+dBv(r), with Kc(r) = 0 as the initial condition.

The specific autoregression matrix specification (2.3) allows to examine other persistence
properties such as unit root processes, when ci = 0 for all i  {1, ..., p}, or explosive pro-
cesses when ci > 0. In this paper, we consider two types of nonstationarity, that is, the
near unit or high persistent regressors and the mildly integrated regressors. Therefore,
in both cases the coefficient of persistent, ci, lies below the unit root boundary. Thus,
the main difference between these two persistence classes is that the mildly integrated
regressors have an exponent rate below the unit boundary, which implies that these
regressors are less persistent than regressors generated from near unit root processes.
Furthermore, one can consider extending our estimation and testing framework to the
case of explosive regressors; we leave this aspect for future research.

    7The OU process is a stationary Gaussian process with an autocorrelation function that decays
exponentially over time. Moreover, the continuous time OU diffusion process has a unique solution and
this property allows to approximate asymptotic terms for estimators and corresponding test statistics
as a function of the nuisance parameter of persistence (see, Perron (1991)).

                                                   7
Katsouris C. (2021)           Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

2.1.1 Quantile Predictive Regression Model

Our main goal is to investigate the asymptotic theory and empirical implementation of
structural break tests suitable for quantile predictive regression models. Therefore, we
consider suitable modifications of the innovation structure that corresponds to the linear
predictive regression model, following standard conditions and assumptions employed
for quantile time series models, currently presented in literature. More precisely, the
conditional quantile function of yt denoted with Qyt (|Ft-1), replaces the conditional
mean function of the predictive regression which implies the following model specification

                     Qyt  (|Ft-1)  :=  F -1        ()    ()  +  ()xt-1.             (2.10)
                                         yt |xt-1

such that Fyt|xt-1() := P yt  Qyt (|Ft-1) Ft-1  , where   (0, 1) is some quantile
level in the compact set (0, 1). Therefore, in order to define the innovation structure that

corresponds to the quantile predictive regression, we employ the piecewise derivative of
the loss function such that (u) =  - 1 {u < 0} . Consequently, this implies that
ut() := ut - Fu-1() where Fu-1( ) denotes the unconditional -quantile of the error
term ut. Then, the corresponding invariance principle for the nonstationary quantile
predictive regression model is formulated as below

                                                                                
1 nr 
  n t=1                   ut()    B (r)(1×n)  BM (1 - )                   v         (2.11)
                          vt           B v (r)(p×n)                   v  vv

Assumption 1. The following conditions for the innovation sequence hold:

(i) The sequence of stationary conditional probability distribution functions (pdf) de-
     noted with fut(),t-1(.) evaluated at zero with a non-degenerate mean function
     such that fut()(0) := E fut(),t-1(0) > 0 satisfies a FCLT given as below

                     1 nr     fut(),t-1(0) - E        fut(),t-1(0)     Bfut() (r).  (2.12)
                       n t=1

(ii) For each t and   (0, 1), fut(),t-1(.) is uniformly bounded away from zero with a
       corresponding conditional distribution function Ft(.) which is absolutely continu-
       ous with respect to Lebesgue measure on R (see, Neocleous and Portnoy (2008),

       Goh and Knight (2009) and Lee (2016)).

Assumption 1 (i) provides a standard weak convergence argument to a Brownian motion
process that corresponds to the underline distribution generating the innovation sequence
of the quantile predictive regression model (see, Lee (2016) and Fan and Lee (2019)).
Furthermore, Assumption 1 (ii) provides the weak convergence argument for the sparsity
function of the model to its Brownian motion counterpart for some 0 < r < 1.

                                                   8
Katsouris C. (2021)      Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

2.2 Estimation Methodology

We investigate the statistical properties of the estimation methodology in relation to
the handling of the nuisance parameter of persistence. We derive the asymptotic distri-
butions of the associated test statistics based on two optimization methods which are
known to have different convergence rates in the time series predictability literature.

2.2.1 OLS based estimation

We consider the OLS based estimation using the check function (.), which is com-

mon practise  for  oqputainmtiiztyatEionn(p)roblemns  of quantile series.  Specifically,  the  asymptotic
behaviour of  the                                     n() - 0() is         of interest.   The  traditional

approach to asymptotics for ^ () is to employ a Bahadur representation which allows

to decompose the expression into a Brownian bridge component and an error term (see,

Portnoy (2012) and Kato (2009)). Furthermore, various studies are concerned with the

dente-rmcoinnsaitsitoenntoaf ssyhmarpptoetrircosrdboonuontdsalfworaytsheapsppleycidfiuceertrootrhteerpmre.seHnocweeovfenr oinnsotautriosentatriintgy,.

Additionally, the chosen estimator affects the stochastic rates of convergence.

Similar to the linear predictive regression (a model with a conditional mean functional
form), under the assumption of persistent regressors, the OLS estimator has been proved
to be biased due to the presence of nuisance parameters (e.g., see Campbell and Yogo
(2006)), resulting to distorted statistical inference8. Nevertheless, focusing on the two
persistence properties we introduced previously, we derive its limit distribution which is
useful when considering structural break tests under nonstationarity.

Denote with () = (), ()   R(p+1)×1 and Xt-1 = 1, xt-1   R(p+1)×n, then
the OLS based estimator is obtained by solving the following optimization problem

                     nqr () := arg min                n                                        (2.13)

                                                         yt - Xt-1
                               Rp+1 t=1

where (u) = u  - 1 {u < 0} with   (0, 1), represents the asymmetric quantile
regression function. Following Lee (2016), we use the normalization matrices below

which are different according to the persistence properties of predictors such that

                     Dn        diag                      for LUR,                              (2.14)
                               diag  nn,,nnI1+p2x I p    for MI.

                         := 

Then, Corollary 1 summarizes the asymptotic distribution of the OLS-QR estimator
(see also Theorem 2.1 Lee (2016)) for mildly integrated and high persistent regressors.

    8Relevant studies in the literature which examine the asymptotic behaviour of standard t-tests under
these conditions include Phillips and Lee (2013, 2016), Lee (2016), Fan and Lee (2019), Kostakis et al.
(2015) and Kasparis et al. (2015) among others.

                                                      9
Katsouris C. (2021)                   Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Corollary 1. Under Assumption 1 and FCLT (2.5)-(2.5) it follows that: Dn nqr () -  ()

                                             1               -1                                              
    
      fut()(0)-1  1 1                     1  0     (Jrc)(Jrc)(drr)dr                  B (1)(1×n)                 LUR,
                                                                                                                 MI.
                                             J                                     1

                      0  J c(r)dr      0        c                   (p+1)×(p+1)    0 J c(r)dB dr(p×n)

                                                      

      N  0,  (1 - )      1         0                  
             fut()(0)2   0
                               V   -1  (p+1)×(p+1)
                                   xx

where the stochastic matrix V xx is defined by the following expression

                                                                         

      V xx :=      0    erCp xxerCp dr, where xx :=                            E vtvt-m = o(1)o(1).

                                                                         m=-

Consequently, the limiting joint distribution of the model intercept and slopes for the

nonstationary quantile predictive regression model under the assumption of mildly inte-
grated regressors, is a mixed normal of the form MN 0,  , where

                               :=   (1 - )         1    0             ,  for some   (0, 1).                      (2.15)
                                   fut(0)(0)2      0
                                                      V  -1
                                                         xx

while under high persistence the asymptotic behaviour of Dn qnr () -  () depends
on functionals of OU processes which are more challenging to approximate, especially if
one is interested to obtain sharp error bounds9 as in Portnoy (2012).

Furthermore, we assume that the sparsity coefficient can be consistently estimated with
a fixed unbiased estimator for all t. This a strong assumption which can be regarded as
a trade-off relation between the complicated objective function (i.e., non-differentiable
and nonstationary) and the tractable error term of the model (Uematsu, 2019). On
the other hand, it permits to consider the limiting distributions when testing for a set
of parameter restrictions. Thus, to overcome the problem of nonstandard statistical
inference due to the presence of the nuisance coefficient of persistence, we employ the
instrumental variable regression approach proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009).

The estimator of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) performs reasonably well in finite sam-
ples and even performs better that the OLS counterpart (see Georgiev et al. (2021)),
demonstrating the robustness of the method in filtering out abstract degree of peri-
stence when testing for linear restrictions in predictive regressions. In addition, the
suggested instrumental variable approach is by definition neither spurious, since it is
always correlated with the corresponding regressor, not a poor instrument, because the
correlation of unit root processes tends to one asymptotically.

9In   particular,  the  study  of  Portnoy   (2012)   obtains  a         near                  error  bound  by  employing
                                                                                 n-consistent

the "Hungarian construction" which requires to approximate the quantity En() using a Brownian bridge
limit which converges to this non-zero Gaussian process with an appropriate rate of convergence.

                                                         10
Katsouris C. (2021)         Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

2.2.2 IVX based estimation

The endogenous instrumentation (IVX) procedure for predictive regression models10
proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) implies the use of a mildly integrated in-
strumental variable. The instrumented variable is constructed as below

                                      t-1  Ip   +  Cz       xt-j - xt-j-1 ,                      (2.16)
                                                   nz
                            zt =

                                      j=0

where Cz = diag{cz1, ..., czp} is a p × p diagonal matrix such that czj < 0  j  {1, ..., p}
with 0 < z < 1, where z is the exponent rate of the persistence coefficient of the
instrumental variable, such that z = x. The IVX filtering methodology transforms
a possibly nonstationary autoregressive process that generates the set of predictors, xt,
which encompasses both stable or unstable processes based on the behaviour of the local
unit root coefficient, into a mildly integrated process which is less persistent than the en-
dogenous variables. Another statistical property is the choice of the exponent rate for the
coefficient of persistence that corresponds to the instrumental variable czj. Specifically,
the econometric literature has documented a choice of z close to 0.95 as a reasonable
value with desirable finite-sample properties when constructing predictability tests (see,
Lee (2016), Phillips and Lee (2016) and Kostakis et al. (2015)). Thus, to account for the
different convergence rates due to nonstationarity and obtain the asymptotic distribution
of the IVX-QR estimator we employ the following normalization matrices

                     Z~ t-1,n := D~ n-1z~t-1 and X~ t-1,n := D~ -n 1x~ t-1                       (2.17)

where  D~ n  =  n I , 1+xz2psuch  that     x     z     min (x, z)  which     is  identical  for  both  the

case of local unit root and mildly integrated regressors. Furthermore, we denote with

yt() := yt - () + OP(n-1/2) to be the zero-intercept QR dependent variable. The

particular dequantiling procedure permits to reformulate the quantile model as yt() =
xt-1()+ut() that simplifies the derivations for the asymptotics of the model estimator
which is known to have different convergence rates when an intercept is included (e.g.,

see Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012, 2017)). Then, the IVX-QR estimator for the quantile

regression, is defined by the following unconstrained optimization problem

                invx-qr() := arg inf            1      n           n
                                            Rp  2
                                                            ht ()       ht () ,                  (2.18)

                                                       t=1         t=1

where ht(.) is defined below such that (u) := 1 {u  0} -  and (u) maps to - 1(u)

                ht () := z~t-1 ×  ut()  z~t-1 ×  - 1 yt() < xt-1                                 (2.19)

  10Notice that the related asymptotic theory which is robust to abstract degree of persistence and
results to nuisance-parameter free inference was pioneered by Magdalinos and Phillips (2009) in the
context of cointegration models.

                                                       11
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

The minimization of expression (2.18) leads to the following first order condition:

                   n                                                = oP(1).                 (2.20)

                      Z~ t-1,n ×  - 1 yt() < xt-1invx-qr()

                  t=1

Furthermore, it can be proved that for both the cases of high persistent and mildly
integrated predictors (LUR or MI ) the asymptotic distribution of the IVX-QR estimator
is identical as presented by Corollary 2. Notice that for the interested reader the limit
distribution for other classes of persistence (e.g., such as predictors which exhibit near
stationary or mildy explosive persistence) can be found in Theorem 3.1 of Lee (2016).

Corollary 2. (IVX-QR Limit Theory) Under Assumption 1 it follows that

           D~ n   nivx-qr () -  ()  N  0,   (1 - )             cxz V  -1   c xz     -1       (2.21)
                                            fut()(0)2                 cxz

which is a mixed Gaussian distribution due to the stochastic covariance matrix.

Analytic definitions of the covariance matrices cxz and V cxz can be found in expressions
(3.4) and (3.5) in Lee (2016). Lastly, Lemma 1 presents the asymptotic behaviour of
the self-normalized Wald statistic based on the IVX-QR estimator (see, Proposition 3.1
in Lee (2016)) for both the cases of LUR and MI regressors.

Lemma 1. (Self-normalized IVX-QR) Under Assumption 1 it holds that,

       fut()(0)2  nivx-qr() - ()  XP Z~ X       nivx-qr() - ()  2p                           (2.22)
       (1 - )

where

XP Z~ X := XZ~       Z~ Z~ -1 Z~ X     n                       n                    -1 n

                                         xt-1 z~ t -1               z~ t-1 z~ t -1           z~ t-1 xt -1

                                       t=1                     t=1                      t=1

such that fut()(0)2 is a consistent estimator of fut()(0)2.

Furthermore, the above result can be generalized when testing for a set of linear re-
strictions under the null hypothesis, H0 : R() = q() where R is a r × p known
matrix and q() is a prespecified vector. The corresponding asymptotic distribution for
the IVX-Wald statistic for the quantile predictive regression is given by the following
expression

fut()(0)2  Rnivx-qr() - q()         R X P Z~ X             -1  Rinvx-qr() - q()               2r
(1 - )
                                                -1R

where 2r denotes the chi-square random variate with r degrees of freedom such that
P 2  r2; = , where 0 <  < 1 denotes the fixed significance level.

                                       12
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

2.3 Testing Hypotheses

In this section we present the testing problem of interest in this paper. More precisely, we
consider two type of testing hypotheses, that is: (i) testing for structural break for a fixed
quantile level   (0, 1) and (ii) testing for a structural break multiple quantile levels.
For both testing hypotheses we operate under the assumption of a single structural break
at an unknown location. Notice, that similar formulations can be found in the study of
Qu (2008), however the focus of our study in the quantile predictive regression model
with possibly nonstationary predictors in the context of return predictability literature.

Testing Hypothesis A. The first testing hypothesis of interest is concerned with
testing for structural break in a pre-specified quantile with the null and alternative
hypothesis given as below

H0(A) : t() = 0() for all 1  t  n, for a fixed   (0, 1),

                                                                         (2.23)

H1(A)  :  t()        =    1()     where 1  t  
                          2()     where  + 1  t  n

for a fixed   (0, 1), where  = n the unknown break-point with   (0, 1).

Testing Hypothesis B. The second testing hypothesis of interest is concerned with
testing for structural break across multiple quantiles, that is, quantiles contained in a
set T, with the null and alternative hypothesis given as below

H0(B) : t() = 0() for all 1  t  n, and for all   T,

                                                                         (2.24)

H1(B)     :          t()  =  1()  where 1  t  
                             2()  where  + 1  t  n

for some   T, where  = n the unknown break-point with   (0, 1).

where 0() is the value of the true population parameter under the null hypothesis of
no parameter instability.

Remark 1. Notice that the statistical problem given by Testing Hypothesis A allow
us to focus on a particular quantile of interest, e.g., any fixed quantile level   0 
(0, 1). On the other hand, the inference problem given by Testing Hypothesis B permits
testing for structural break in the coefficients of the quantile predictive regression model
by investigating the presence of breaks in the conditional distribution, that is, at any
possible quantile level within the compact set T := [, 1 - ] where 0 <  < 1/2.

                                  13
Katsouris C. (2021)           Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Both Testing Hypothesis A and B summarize the modelling environment under the null

as well as under the alternative hypothesis. More precisely, under the null hypothesis the

parameter vector is taken to be constant throughout the sample such that t()  0()
for t = 1, ..., n where 0() is the unknown quantile dependent regression parameter.
Therefore, in practise we are interested in testing the null hypothesis that t() remains
constant, that is, t() = 0() for all t against the alternative that the quantile de-
pendent parameter vector t() has a single structural break at an unknown location
within the full sample, resulting to two regimes11. Under the alternative hypothesis:

          Qyt (|Ft-1) = 1()xt-11 t   + 2()xt-11 t >  + ut                          (2.25)

where Ft denotes the -field generated by {xt-1, xt-2, ..., }. Therefore, it is convenient

to write the hypotheses with a different formulation. Denote with (1)() = 1() and

(2)() = 2() - 1(). Furthermore, to construct the model so that it can capture the
                                                                                   
magnitude of the structural break we denote with X t-1 =      xt-1, xt-11 {t > }
                                                                                    and

() = (1)(), (2)() . Thus, we express the null hypothesis as following

H0(A)  :  Qyt  (|Ft-1)  =  X       (),  with  (2)() = 0  for  some   fixed  0   T  (2.26)
                              t-1

Then, the alternative hypothesis can be formulated as below

H1(A)  :  Qyt  (|Ft-1)  =  X       (),  with  (2)() = 0  for  some   fixed     T   (2.27)
                              t-1

Furthermore, since we consider the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model
without an intercept, following the formulations given by expressions (2.26) and (2.27) for
the null and alternative hypotheses respectively, then we define the quantile dependent
estimator as the optimization problem below

                                                                  n                (2.28)

                        n ,  := arg min  yt - X t-1b ,
                                                  R2p t=1

Therefore, with the above formulation of the estimator n(, ) is the quantile depen-
dent regression estimator when we employ X t-1 to be the model predictor variables.
Specifically, when the H0(A) is true, under suitable regularity conditions, 2(, ) con-
verges in probability to 0 for each (, )   ×T. On the other hand, when H1(A) is true,
2(; 0) converges in probability to (2)(0) = 2(0) - 1(0) = 0. In summary,
since the quantile level 0 especially for Testing Hypothesis B is unknown a prior, then
it is reasonable to reject H0 when the magnitude of 2(, ) is suitable large for some
(, )   × T. Thus, an example of a suitable test statistic to test whether H0 against
the alternative hypothesis H1 is to employ the supremum of the Wald process.

  11Notice that the two regimes we refer to here, are not equivalent to testing methodologies proposed
in studies such as Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012, 2017) and Galvao et al. (2014) in which emphasis is
given to testing the null hypothesis of linearity based on the presence of no threshold effect.

                                              14
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

In general, a Wald type statistic has the following form

SW n ,  := sup n^ (2)(0) V n(; 0) ^ (2)(0)                        (2.29)
                            (,) ×T

where V n(; 0) is the asymptotic covariance matrix of the stochastic process n^ (2)(0),
under the null hypothesis. However, since the covariance matrix that corresponds to
the population regression parameters is in practise unknown, is replaced by a suitable
consistent estimate that holds under the null hypothesis of no structural break in the
quantile predictive regression model. Obviously within the aforementioned structural
break setting which is our main research focus in the paper, the break-point location is
not identified under the null hypothesis as we explained in the introduction.

Moreover, additionally to Remark 1, the Testing Hypotheses of interest A and B cor-
respond to two different test functions such that Testing Hypothesis A requires to for-
mulate test statistics by employing the supremum funcitonal while Testing Hypothesis
B requires to construct test statistics with the use of the double supremum functional.
Intuitively, we are interested to examine both hypotheses since it might be the case that
A is not rejected, that is, there are no statistical evidence of the presence of a structural
break for a given quantile level 0  (0, 1), while when employing Testing Hypothesis B,
it could be the case that the test statistic provides statistical evidence of rejecting the
null hypothesis, implying that a structural break still exist at some other quantile level
not the one which is kept fixed, within the set (0,1).

3 Testing for structural break for a fixed quantile level

Next, we focus on the structural break testing procedures for the quantile regression
model with regressors generated as near unit root processes based on two test statistics.

3.1 Preliminary Setting

We consider structural break tests for a fixed quantile level, say 0  (0, 1). Consider
the subgradient12 Sn , 0, b , based on the subsample 1  t  

                                                            n     (3.1)

                     Sn , 0, b = n-1/2 xt-1 yt - xt-1b ,

                                                             t=1

where b corresponds to an estimator of the parameter vector (0) which encompasses
both the OLS and IVX estimators under suitable parametrizations.

  12The required convexity arguments for obtaining estimators based on the conditional quantile func-
tion are based on the convexity lemma result presented by Pollard (1991). Furthermore, related results
are presented by Koenker and Portnoy (1987).

                         15
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

The continuous function (.) is defined as (u) = 0 - 1 {u  0} and  = n

denotes the unknown break-point location implying a break fraction   lim /n such
                                                                                                                                               n

that    := [, 1-] is a compact set. Thus, under the null hypothesis of no structural
break with stationary and ergodic regressors, the quantity  yt-xt-1(0) is a pivotal
statistic. In particular, since xt-1(0) is equal to the conditional -quantile of yt
given xt-1, then the random variables 1 y1  xt-1(0) , ..., 1 yn  xt-1(0) are
independent Bernoulli trials with success probability  (see, Galvao et al. (2014)), which

implies a sequence of random variables with mean zero and variance 0(1-0). A similar

result should hold in our setting of possibly nonstationary regressors. Furthermore,
denote with X = (x1 , ..., xn) and define the following auxiliary quantity

Jn , 0, 0()          :=  n-1X  X  -1/2     , 0, 0()  .                                      (3.2)

                                       Sn

Furthermore, replacing the unknown parameter vector 0(0) with the quantile depen-
dent regression estimator based on the full sample, under the null hypothesis of no
structural break in the model, the quantity given by (3.2) can be formulated as below

                J^n , 0, n(0) = XX -1/2 n xt-1 yt - xt-1n(0) .                              (3.3)

                                                                                       t=1

for some 0 <  < 1 and 0  (0, 1).

The use of fluctuation type statistics provide a way for statistical inference regarding the
presence of structural breaks in model coefficients (Leisch et al. (2000)). Intuitively for
these class of tests we consider the asymptotic behaviour of the corresponding empirical
processes to decide whether to accept or reject the null. In particular, the fluctuation
type test converges to a nondegenerate limiting distribution under the null hypothesis,
since the random quantity given by expression (3.3) is essentially governed by the in-
variance principle under the null. In practise, when the quantile dependent parameters
exhibit no structural break in the sample, then n(0) is a consistent estimator and as a
result, J^n , 0, n(0) has the same stochastic order as its population counterpart. On
the other hand, when the null hypothesis is false, the underline stochastic process exhibit
excessive fluctuations. Specifically, under the alternative hypothesis, model parameters
have a break at some unknown location in the sample, which implies that n(0) will
differ significantly from the true value for some sub-sample and the estimated residuals
will have high fluctuations (beyond the usual increments of a Wiener process) resulting
to falsely rejecting the null due to a large value of the statistic (Qu, 2008, p. 172).

                         16
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

The focus of the proposed econometric environment in this paper is the structural break
detection in the model parameters of quantile predictive regression with possibly non-
stationary regressors, under the assumption that these are generated as near unit root
processes. Intuitively, the two persistence classes (mildly integrated and near unit root)
we consider encompasses moderate deviations from the unit boundary similar to the case
of near integrated (see Phillips (1988)). Therefore, both the value (and sign) of the coef-
ficient of persistence as well as its exponent rate13 (a tuning parameter), determine the
asymptotic behaviour of functionals based on these near unit root process. As a result,
the chosen estimator can affect the asymptotic theory of the proposed test statistics as
well as the corresponding functionals which we examine separately below.

3.1.1 OLS based functionals

Within the proposed econometric environment which corresponds to the modelling of
nonstationary quantile time series models, regressors are assumed to follow a local unit
root process. Thus, we expect that OLS based functionals will dependent on the nuisance
coefficient of persistence14. Furthermore, due to the presence of both a model intercept
and the set of nonstationary regressors, we also need to modify the functionals given by
expressions (3.1)-(3.2) in order to account for the different convergence rates.

Therefore, to obtain equivalent representations to the quantity Sn , 0, b , we consider
the corresponding partial sum process of the functional Knx 0, onls(0) as given by
Definition 1. We obtain the limit result for these functionals based on the full sam-
ple and then focus on deriving invariance principles for the corresponding partial sum
processes for the two estimators under examination (see, Section 3.2). More precisely,
the functionals given by Definition 1 correspond to a quantile regression ordinary least
squares estimator and are employed when the asymptotic behaviour of the OLS based
test statistics is concerned (see also Lemma A1 in Lee (2016)).

Definition 1.

               Knx 0, nols(0)                   n                                      (3.4)
               Lnx 0, onls(0)                                                          (3.5)
                               := Dn-1 Xt-1 ut(0)

                                        t=1

                               := Dn-1  n                                    D-n 1
                                                                        t-1
                                             fut  (),t-1  (0)X  t-1  X

                                        t=1

for some 0  (0, 1) where  ut(0)  =      0 - 1     yt  -   X       onls(0)      0    .
                                                             t-1

  13Practically, these are nuisance parameters however via Monte Carlo simulations we can choose
suitable values for ci and x in order to simulate these experimental conditions and thus evaluate the
finite-sample performance of the test statistics with high persistence or mildly integrated regressors.

  14Notice that this is the standard inference problem in the predictability literature. Further details
regarding the bias (nonstandard distortion) occurred in predictability tests (i.e., t-tests) in quantile
predictive regression models can be found in the study of Lee (2016). In our study, we aim to compare
both the OLS as well as the instrumental variable approach of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009).

                                             17
Katsouris C. (2021)                 Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

A key observation is that under the null hypothesis of no parameter instability these
functional converge to a nondegenerate limit distribution. Corollary 3 demonstrates the
asymptotic distributions of the functionals given by Definition 1.

Corollary 3. Under the assumption that the pair {yt, xt-1}nt=1 is generated by the
model (2.1)-(2.2) then for both LUR and MI regressors it holds that

(i) Knx 0, onls(0)  Kx 0, 0(0) , for some 0  (0, 1) as n  ,
(ii) Lnx 0, onls(0)  Lx 0, 0(0) , for some 0  (0, 1) as n  ,

where

                                           
                          
                             B (1)(1×n)                                                          LUR,
                                                                                                          (3.6)
                              1
                                                                                                 MI.
                             0 J c(r)dB (p+1)×n

Kx  0, 0(0)               N                                                     
                             0,
                                                               
                                                  1      0 
                                 0(1   -   0)  ×                                
                                                   0  V xx (p+1)×(p+1) (p+1)×n

                                                            1       
                          fut()(0) × 
                                             1           1  0  c(Jrc)(Jrc)( r)             LUR,
                                                                                           MI.
                                           1                J

Lx 0, 0(0)                                   J c(r)   0                       (p+1)×(p+1)        (3.7)

                                          0

                          fut()(0)  ×            
                                       1    0 
                                           V xx (p+1)×(p+1)
                                        0

where the stochastic matrix V xx is defined by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) as

                                                                 

    V xx :=               erCpxxerCpdr, where xx :=                 E vtvt-m      = o(1)o(1).
                     0
                                                               m=-

Remark 2. Notice that an important aspect for robust inference in quantile regres-
sions15 is the consistent estimation of the sparsity coefficient (see, discussion presented
in Koenker and Machado (1999)) and also conditions proposed by Koltchinskii (1997),
especially in finite samples. In our setting the self-normalized property of Wald type
tests ensures that the sparsity coefficient does not affect the estimation accuracy.

  15In some studies presented in the literature the use of the check function is defined to be the
difference of the indicator function from the quantile level, as in Zhou and Portnoy (1998); however
both expressions are equivalent due to the monotonicity property of the check function.

                                                        18
Katsouris C. (2021)      Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

3.1.2 IVX based functionals

In this Section, we derive the asymptotic distribution of the IVX based functionals

which are useful to obtain the asymptotic behaviour of the proposed structural break

tests under the assumption of nonstationary regressors in the model. We employ the
embedded normalization version of the instruments such that Z~ t-1,n := D~ n-1z~t-1.

Definition 2.

                 Knz 0, nivx(0)             n                                        (3.8)
                  Lnz 0, nivz (0)                                                    (3.9)
                 M nz 0, invx(0)     := Z~ t-1,n ut(0)                              (3.10)

                                         t=1

                                         n                 (0)Z~         Z~  
                                                                             t-1,n
                                     :=         fut(),t-1         t-1,n

                                         t=1

                                         n                 (0)Z~             
                                                                             t-1,n
                                     :=         fut(),t-1         t-1,n  X

                                         t=1

for some 0  (0, 1) where  ut(0) = 0 - 1 yt - invx(0)xt-1  0 .

Corollary 4. Under the assumption that the pair {yt, xt-1}nt=1 is generated by the
model (2.1)-(2.2) then for both LUR and MI regressors it holds that

 (i) Knz 0, nivx(0)  Kz 0, 0(0)  N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz ,
(ii) Lnz 0, invz(0)  Lz 0, 0(0)  fut()(0) × V cxz,
(iii) M nz 0, nivx(0)  M z 0, 0(0)  fut()(0) × cxz,

where the definition of the asymptotic matrix V cxz depends on the stochastic dominance
of the two exponent rates (see, Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Lee (2016)) such as

                                                       when 0 < z < x < 1,          (3.11)
                                                       when 0 < x < z < 1.
          V zz =            erCz xxerCz dr,
V cxz  V xx =
                         0
                           

                             erCp xxerCp dr,

                         0

Moreover, the definition of the moment matrix cxz is presented by Lee (2016) via
expression (3.4) which is the corresponding asymptotic limit given by expression (20) in
Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) as given below

                                  1
               -C
                     -1  xx +  0     J  c(r)dJ      ,  when x = 1,
                     z                          c      when 0 < z < x < 1,
                                                       when 0 < x < z < 1.
cxz := -V Cxx-z, 1 xx + CpV xx ,                                                    (3.12)

                                                19
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

The proofs of Corollary 3 and 4 can be found in the Appendix of the paper. Note
that the stochastic convergence of these functional holds for large sample size, n  ,
and the existence of well-defined moment matrices with negligible higher-order terms.
Therefore, to facilitate the development of the asymptotic theory we define the following
empirical process for some parameter vector b  Rp such that

                                                 n

  Gn (, b) := n-(1+x)/2 zt-1 ×  ut () - xt-1b - EFt-1  ut () - xt-1b

                                                t=1

where   (0, 1) and 0 < x < 1. In particular, the empirical process Gn (, b) is
consider stochastically -equicontinuous over T × B, such that for any  > 0,

lim lim sup P        sup Gn 1, b1  - Gn 2, b2  >  = 0,              (3.13)

0 n                   []

where [] := (1, b1), (2, b2)  (T × B)2 :  (1, b1), (2, b2) <  .

Remark 3. The above expression is often employed to derive asymptotics for quantile
regression models (with stationary regressors). Specifically, one can consider the validity
of the stochastic equicontinuity proof of Bickel (1975) under nonstationarity. Practically,
since the regressors employed when estimating the inverse of the quantile function (.),
that is, z~t-1 is mildly integrated, inducing a nearly stationary process, then the con-
ditions given by Bickel (1975) are valid and the proof follows with modifications to
accommodate the nonstationary quantile predictive regression (Lee (2016)).

An additional condition for convergence in probability for the empirical process is im-
posed by Lemma 2, which can be employed to derive the convergence rate of the IVX
estimator for the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model.

Lemma 2. For a generic constant C1 > 0                              (3.14)
                     sup Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0) : b  n(1+)/2C1 = oP(1).

where b is some estimator of the model parameter vector.

More precisely, Lemma 2 provides a simplified way to derive the convergence limit for the
IVX-QR estimator (see, also Lee (2016)) that ensures consistent estimation of the model
parameters for the quantile predictive regression model. A related study to our setting
with detailed derivations for nonstandard inference problems, (Wald type statistics), for
nonstationary quantile regressions is presented in the study of Goh and Knight (2009).
Overall, the asymptotic theory of this paper aims to combine unit root asymptotics with
empirical process methods. Specifically, we employ a two-parameter empirical process
that converges weakly to a two-parameter Brownian motion. Therefore, our asymptotic
distributions involve stochastic integrals with respect to this two-parameter process.

                     20
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

3.2 Invariance principles for partial sum processes

To obtain the asymptotic distributions of the test statistics, we consider the asymptotic
behaviour of the partial sum processes of the functionals defined in the previous section.
We focus in the case of nonstationary regressors which are either high persistent or
mildly integrated (see, Section 2 for definitions and Kostakis et al. (2015)). Moreover,
since we derive and compare the limit distributions of structural break tests based on
the chose estimation methodology, we derive invariance principles that correspond to
each of these two estimators. Therefore, we define with

                                                     n                                (3.15)

Snolxs , 0, onls(0) := D-n 1 Xt-1 ut(0) , for some 0 <  < 1,

                                                      t=1

where ut(0) =  yt  -   X       nols  (0)  for 0  (0, 1), which can be determined uniquely,
                          t-1

making  the mapping      (u)    - 1(u)     one-to-one  and well-defined.    Moreover, we denote
with X  t-1 = 1, xt-1    the   regressors  and (0)     = (0), (0)           the parameters.

Recall that for mildly integrated regressors it holds that (see, Corollary 3)

                                      n                                            
                                                                                 0 
Knx 0, onls(0)       := D-n 1 Xt-1 ut(0)                 N  0,  0(1  -  0)  1   V xx  (3.16)
                                                                             0
                                    t=1

Similarly, we can show that Snolxs , , onls(0)  Sx , 0, 0(0) as n  , where

                                                                        
                                                                     0 
                Sx , 0, 0(0)                N  0,   0(1  -  0)  1   V xx              (3.17)
                                                                 0

for some 0 <  < 1. Then, for the corresponding IVX based functional it holds that

                               n

Snivzx , 0, invx(0) :=               Z~ t-1,n ut(0)  N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz               (3.18)

                               t=1

where Z~ t-1,n := D~ n-1z~t-1 since we employ the corresponding dequantiled model.
Definition 3.

J^noxls , 0, onls(0)      :=   XX         -1/2 n            yt - Xt-1nols(0)    ,     (3.19)
                                                                                      (3.20)
                                                    X t-1                             (3.21)

                                               t=1

J^nivxx , 0, invx(0) := XZ~ -1/2 n Z~ t-1,n yt - Xt-1,nnivx(0) ,

                                                                     t=1

J^nivxz , 0, invz (0) := Z~ Z~ -1/2 n Z~ t-1,n yt - Z~ t-1,nnivz (0) .

                                                                    t=1

for some 0 <  < 1 and 0  (0, 1).

                                                 21
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Consider the functionals given by Definition 3, then when we employ the OLS estimator
for a model with mildly integrated regressors, x  (0, 1), the following limit result holds

J^noxls , 0, nols(0)    =  XX   -1/2 n               yt  -  X       nols(0)
                                                               t-1
                                          X t-1 

                                       t=1                                           

                                n                        -1/2          n             

                         D-n 1       X t-1X t-1 Dn-1           D-n 1         Xt-1 ut(0) 

                                t=1                                    t=1

                                     -1/2                                          
                           1    0    
                           0                   ×  N  0,  0(1   -   0)  1      0 
                                V xx                                    0    V xx

                        = 0(1 - 0) × N 0, Ip .                                       (3.22)

since  the  term     1  n    xt-1xt-1  P    V  xx  converges   in   probability.  A similar limit
                  n1+x  t=1
result holds for the IVZ based functional such that J^nivxz , 0, nivz(0)  0(1 - 0)×

N 0, Ip , regardless of whether the regressors exhibit high persistence. On the other
hand, the OLS based functional has a nonstandard limit distribution with regressors of

high persistence. In the case of the IVX functional one needs to consider the limit result

for these two classes of persistence separately. These conjectures are summarized and

proved by Proposition 1 in the next section where we formalize the test statistics.

3.3 Test Statistics

We consider as detectors two types of test statistics commonly employed in the literature
related to structural break testing methodologies. The first type of test corresponds to
the fluctuation type statistic studied by Qu (2008) specifically for a quantile regression
model, while the second type of test corresponds to the Wald statistic proposed by the
seminal paper of Andrews (1993) for the linear regression model. Both test statistics
utilize the supremum functional since the underline assumptions allow for a structural
break for the coefficients of the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model at an
unknown break-point location within the full sample.

Therefore, the null hypothesis of interest (e.g., see (2.23)) is formulated as below

       H0(A) : (n1) ; 0 = (n2) ; 0 versus H1(A) : n(1) ; 0 = n(2) ; 0                (3.23)

where (nj)(; 0) = n(j)(; 0), n(j)(; 0) , for j  {1, 2} and the location of the break-
point is denoted with  = n for some 0 <  < 1. Specifically, the implementation of
structural break tests for the purpose of detecting parameter instability in nonstationary
quantile predictive regressions is a novel aspect in the literature. To facilitate for the
development of large sample theory, Assumption 2 presents necessary conditions relating
the matrix moments to the quantile structure of the model.

                                               22
Katsouris C. (2021)                  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Assumption 2. The regressors of the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model
which follow a near unit process, are assumed to satisfy the following conditions:

(a)  plim    1   n                             = fut()(0)V xx,      uniformly   for  0 <  < 1,
           n1+x
     n               fut(),t-1(0)xt-1xt-1

                 t=1

(b)  plim    1   n                   =  V xx,  uniformly  for  some  0  <    <  1,   where  V xx  is  a
           n1+x
     n               xt-1 xt -1

                 t=1
     p × p non-random positive definite matrix and x  (0, 1),

(c) E xt-1xt-1 2+s < L with s > 0 and L <  for all 1  t  n,

(d) there exists a  > 0 and an M < , such that n-1                   n    E  xt-1    3(1+) < M and
                                                                     t=1
                                     (1+) < M hold for any n.
     E n-1  n    xt-1             3
            t=1

Assumption 2 (a) and (b) are standard convergence in probability limits for the non-

stationary quantile predictive regression model. Assumption 2 (c) is employed for the

convergence of the weighted empirical process n-1/2            n    xt-1  0 - 1    Fy|x(yt)  0        .
                                                               t=1

Furthermore, Assumption 2 (d) ensures stochastic equicontinuity (see, Chapter 2 in

Van Der Vaart and Wellner (1996)) of the sequential empirical process based on esti-

mated quantile regression residuals, which is needed to establish weak convergence of the

tests (see Bai (1996)). Moreover, in the case of possibly nonstationary regressors, since

standard quantile regression estimators follow a locally uniform weak convergence (see

De Haan and Ferreira (2006)) then invariance principles hold uniformly for   (0, 1).

3.3.1 Fluctuation type tests

Specifically, since we assume that the true break point is unknown, we need to search

over all possible candidate subsets within the full sample. Furthermore, according to
Qu (2008) recentering J^n , 0, n(0) by the quantity J^n 1, 0, n(0) often yields
better finite sample performance. Such considerations lead to the following test statistic:

SQn(; 0) = sup                        1     J^n , 0, n(0)      - J^n 1, 0, n(0)           (3.24)
                                  0(1 - 0)
                           [0,1]                                                     

where .  is the sup-norm such that for a generic vector z = (z1, ..., zp) implies that
 .  := max (|z1|, ..., |zp|) (see, Koenker and Xiao (2002)).

We focus on the implementation of two different estimation methodologies. Therefore,
to investigate the practical use of the proposed fluctuation type test for structural break
detection in the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model, we consider the
asymptotic distribution of the test statistics according to the estimator employed to
construct the test function. Thus, Proposition 1 summarizes the formulations of the test
according to the estimation methodology employed for a fixed quantile level 0  (0, 1).

                                               23
Katsouris C. (2021)                          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Proposition 1. Under the null hypothesis H0(A) and given that Assumptions 1-2 hold,
then the fluctuation type statistics weakly converge to the limit distributions below

(i) SQnols(; 0) := sup                           1           J^n  , 0, nols(0)              - J^n  1, 0, nols(0)
                                             0(1 - 0)
                                   [0,1]                                                                                 

                            
                     su[0p,1]
                     su[0p,1]                BBp+1() ,                                             when x  (0, 1)
                                                                                                   when x = 1
                                             S-xx1/2         BB   ()(1×n)                   
                                                                              
                                                      ×                                       ,
                                                            J B ()(p×n)
                                                                                (p+1)×n

(ii) SQinvx(; 0) := sup                          1           J^n  , 0, invx(0)              - J^n  1, 0, nivx(0)
                                             0(1 - 0)
                                     [0,1]                                                                               

 sup                                         BBp() ,                                        when x = (0, z )

     [0,1]

(iii) SQinvz(; 0) := sup                         1           J^n  ,  0     ,    ivz  (0  )  - J^n  1,  0  ,    ivz  (0)
                                             0(1 - 0)
                                      [0,1]                                   n                              n

                                                                                                                         

 sup                                         BBp() ,                                        when x = (0, 1]

     [0,1]

where BBp(.) is a vector of p independent Brownian bridge processes16 on DRp ([0, 1]),

                                                         1           

Sxx :=  1 1                                           10JJc(cr()rJ)cd(rr)                   with 0 < r < 1
              J c(r)dr
                                             0                             (p+1)×(p+1)
                  0

where Sxx is a positive definite stochastic matrix, BB() := B() - B(1).

A necessary condition to apply weak convergence arguments that yields invariance prin-
ciples for partial sum processes in the Skorokhod space D ([0, 1]) follows

 sup D-n 1 J^n , 0, n(0) - J^n 1, 0, ^ n(0) - Jn , 0, n(0) - Jn 1, 0, n(0) = oP(1).

(0,1)

 The proposed test statistics extend the fluctuation type tests studied by Qu (2008),
to the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model of our setting. We compare
the instrumental variable based method to the classical OLS approach for constructing
the fluctuation test. Moreover, we employ the IVZ estimator given by Proposition 1
(iii), which replaces the original covariate vector with the constructed instruments as
a post-estimation correction method that permits to obtain further simplifications of
asymptotic terms. Our asymptotic theory analysis shows that the fluctuation type test
weakly converges into a Brownian bridge limit when the IVZ estimator is employed and
the same limit holds for both OLS and IVX based tests under mild integratedness.

  16Note that BBp(.) is known as the square of a standardized tied-down Bessel process of order p.

                                                        24
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

On the other hand, under high persistence the fluctuation type test based on the OLS
estimator is proved to have a weak convergence into a nonstandard and nonpivotal
asymptotic distribution.17 A similar asymptotic result holds for the corresponding IVX
based test statistic when x = 1 such that

J^n , 0, invx(0) - J^n 1, 0, invx(0)

 0(1 - 0) × c-x1z/2 × N 0, V cxz - N 0, V cxz  (3.25)

unless we assume that the exponent rate of persistence is such that x(0, z).

Fluctuation type statistics have been previously examined as a detector for parameter
instability in studies such as Kuan and Chen (1994), Chu et al. (1996) and Leisch et al.
(2000). More precisely, the statistical advantage of these statistics lies in the fact that
they utilize properties of the maximum of Wiener processes (see Révész (1982)) and
consequently weakly convergence arguments as defined by Billingsley (1968) can be
employed to derive their asymptotic behaviour. Furthermore, these class of tests belong
to the same class as CUSUM type tests although in the latter case the test function is
constructed based on regression residuals (see Kulperger et al. (2005)).

Overall within the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model framework of our
study, we observe some important conclusions for the implementation of fluctuation type
tests as structural break detectors. Firstly, the asymptotic distributionof the test statis-
tic SQ(; 0) depends on the chosen estimator when constructing the test function as
seen from the limiting distributions when constructing the test based on the two esti-
mators, under high persistent regressors. On the other, under the assumption of mildly
integrated regressors these test statistics weakly converge into a Brownian bridge type
limit regardless of the chosen estimator when constructing the test function. Therefore,
for the particular persistence class fluctuatuon type tests depends only on the number of
parameters subject to structural break since the nuisance coefficient of persistence that
captures the nonstationary properties of predictors is filtered out. Secondly, these test
statistics do not require to estimate the sparsity coefficient fy|x Fy-|x1(0) . According
to Qu (2008) this occurs since the subgradient, when evaluated at the true parameter
value 0(0), does not depend on the distribution of the errors.

Thus, conducting statistical inference with some prior information regarding the pres-
ence of persistence regressors, using fluctuation type tests as detectors is preferable to
construct the test function based on the IVZ estimator which can lead to conventional
inference methods (e.g., using tabulated critical values).

  17Similar results are proved by Katsouris (2021) who propose structural break tests for the linear
predictive regression model. Within the particular framework, the author proves that the asymptotic
distribution of sup-Wald type statistics when the regressors of the model exhibit high persistence are
nonstandard (when the OLS estimator is employed), since the asymptotic distribution of the test depend
on the unknown persistence coefficient.

                                                        25
Katsouris C. (2021)             Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Next, we examine the self-normalized18 property of Wald type tests by deriving the
related asymptotic theory. Due to the assumptions and conditions under which we
construct the proposed test statistics, to examine their limit distributions stochastic
equicontinuity arguments are necessary in proofs (see, Newey (1991)).

3.3.2 Wald type tests

We now introduce the Wald type tests based on the two estimation methodologies which
we focus on (OLS versus IVX based tests). The formulation of the model under the null
and under the alternative hypothesis can change the interpretation in the notation we
employ for model parameters. One approach is to employ the formulations given by
expressions (2.26)-(2.27). In that case, the Wald type test is constructed for testing
the null hypothesis that the parameter vector (2)(0) which implies that we are testing
the null hypothesis that 1(0) - 1(0) = 0. However, one has to be careful when
constructing the covariance matrix as the regressors need to be adjusted accordingly.
Furthermore, a second approach is to construct the stacked regressors that correspond
to the time series observations from each of the two subsamples.

To simplify the notation, we employ the second approach and denote with 1(; 0) the
estimator of 0(0), using observations up to  = n for some 0 <  < 1 and with
2(; 0) the corresponding parameter estimator based on the remaining observations
in the sample. Moreover, denote with X~  X1 X2 and R  Ip - Ip the selection

matrix, then n(; 0) := 2(; 0) - 1(; 0) . Then, the Wald test for testing the
null hypothesis that the two regimes have equivalent parameter vectors, based on the
OLS estimator and some unknown break-point  = n is formulated as below

                   Wn(, 0)      =    nn(; 0)   V  n(; 0)    -1                    (3.26)

                                                              n(; 0)

where V n(; 0) is a consistent estimate of the limiting variance of n(; 0) under the
null hypothesis, H0(A), of no parameter instability for a fixed quantile level 0  (0, 1).
The variance estimator is a key quantity which will affect the robustness of Wald type
tests and takes different forms depending on the estimation method we employ when
fitting the nonstationary quantile predictive regression.

Consider the following limiting variance estimate

             plim  V n(; 0)          0(1 - 0)  0,       (, 0)  (0, 1) × (0, 1),   (3.27)
                                      (1 - )
             n

where  0  =  H  0-1D0H  -1  is  the  unknown  variance  of  the  OLS-Wald  test.
                        0

  18Specifically a relevant application of self normalized statistics is the construction of confidence
intervals for model parameters as in the study of Shao (2010). We leave this aspect for future research.

                                                        26
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Furthermore, define with

                        H0   =  plim  1   n                                                (3.28)
                                      n                                                    (3.29)
                                n            fy|x (yt|xt-1) xt-1xt-1

                                         t=1

                        D0   =  plim  1   n
                                      n
                                n            xt-1xt-1

                                         t=1

where fy|x(.|xt-1) and Fy|x(.|xt-1) are the conditional density and conditional cumula-
tive distribution function of yt respectively (see Goh and Knight (2009) and Aue et al.
(2017)).

However, the particular form of the asymptotic variance only holds under the assumption
of stationarity in which case the variance estimator simplifies since it does not depend
on any nuisance parameters (such as the coefficients of persistence) and thus equivalent
matrix moments to the expressions in Qu (2008) (see also Andrews (1993)) hold. In our
setting, we consider alternative variance estimators based on both the chosen estimator
and the persistence class of regressors.

In any of the aforementioned cases, the supremum Wald test is defined as below

SWn(; 0) := sup                   nn(; 0)              V  n(; 0)    -1                     (3.30)

                                                                      n(; 0)

In practise, a symmetric trimming coefficient is employed such that 0 <  < 1/2 which
lead to the admissible set  := [, 1 - ], in order to ensure that the test statistics con-
verge in distribution under the null hypothesis. Therefore, we investigate the asymptotic
behaviour of the OLS based Wald test for the nonstationary quantile predictive regres-
sion model given by (2.1)-(2.2) which encompasses the case of stationary regressors.
Under the assumption of stable regressors the asymptotic variance of the OLS-Wald
test is equivalent to the case when regressors are stationary and ergodic.

Under the assumption of nonstationarity, the formulation of the OLS-Wald test statistic
requires to determine the asymptotic behaviour of the following quantities

o1ls(;  0)           =       n                 -1      n                                   (3.31)
                        1    t=1  xt-1 xt -1       1   t=1  xt-1yt                         (3.32)

                                                     

2ols(;  0)           =       1          n               -1       1           n           
                             -    t=n+1    xt-1 xt -1            -     t=n+1    xt-1yt

                          n                                   n

 and nols(; 0) = o2ls(; 0) - o1ls(; 0), for some 0 <  < 1 and   (0, 1). Then,
due to orthogonality of the two set of regressors the covariance matrix simplifies into

the following expression:

V onls(; 0) := R X~ X~ -1R  X1X 1 -1 + X2 X2 -1                                            (3.33)

                                           27
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

                     28
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

3.4 Asymptotic Theory

As we discussed previously, the limit theory of the Wald type statistics for both the OLS
and IVX estimators seems more difficult than the limit results for the fluctuation type
tests, especially due to the dependence of regressors and parameter estimates to the nui-
sance parameter of persistence. Therefore, here we generalize the functionals introduced
in Section 3.2 and 3.2 in order to study their asymptotic properties which can allevi-
ate the difficulty in obtaining stochastic approximations under the presence of abstract
degree of persistence; simplifying this way derivations for their limit distributions.

3.4.1 OLS-Wald test statistic

We focus on the asymptotic theory for the OLS-Wald test statistic, which is employed as
a structural break detection for the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model.
In particular, we investigate the asymptotic behaviour of the partial sum processes for
the OLS based functionals we introduced previously. For a general parameter vector
b  Rp we denote with Sn(, 0, b) the partial sum given by the following expression

                                        n

                     Sn , 0, b = n-1/2       xt-1 yt - xt-1b  (3.34)

                                        t=1

where (u) is such that (u) :=  - 1 {u  0} . Therefore, Sn(, 0, b) is written as

                                       n                      (3.35)

Sn , 0, b = n-1/2 xt-1 0 - 1 yt - xt-1b  0 .

                                        t=1

Following conventional laws of invariance principles for i.i.d partial sums the induced se-
quence of increments are tight within a suitable topological space19 and in fact they con-
verge weakly to Gaussian processes. Therefore, investigating the asymptotic behaviour
and properties of these functionals is useful for the development of the asymptotic the-
ory of the proposed test statistics as well as for other applications. In order to do this,
we consider centering the quantity 1 yt - xt-1b  0 at its expectation conditional
on xt-1, instead around the quantile level 0. Furthermore, since we assume that the
nonparametric functional given by expression (3.35) can be employed as a stochastic
process in D ([0, 1]), which is the topological space of all right continuous functions with
left limits then we can derive an invariance principle for this partial sum process.

  19Related theory to weak convergence arguments of partial sum processes can be found in various
studies. For instance, Wang and Phillips (2012) redefine the innovation sequence of their model, in the
context of specification testing under nonstationarity, to a richer probability space which contains a
standard Brownian motion. To do this, a triangular representation of the near unit process is employed
in order to investigate the asymptotic behaviour of the transformed functional with respect to this
triangular array. Although this would be an interesting way to represent our functionals we avoid the
introduction of triangular arrays which could be more challenging to handle.

                                                        29
Katsouris C. (2021)           Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

To simplify derivations for the asymptotic theory, and following Qu (2008), we define
the quantity Sn , 0, b with the expression below

                                       n                                                               (3.36)

Sn , 0, b = n-1/2 xt-1 Fy|x xt-1b - 1 yt - xt-1b  0 .

                                        t=1

where Fy|x xt-1b is assumed to be monotonic. A necessary and sufficient condition for
the monotonicity property of the cumulative distribution function to hold is presented

by Lemma ?? (see, also Lemma A1 in Qu (2008)). Consequently, we obtain that

                                                                   n                                   (3.37)

Sn , 0, b  Sn , 0, b + n-1/2 xt-1 0 - Fy|x xt-1b .

                                                                    t=1

Our research objective here is to establish the weak convergence argument that holds
for the random quantity Sn (, 0, b) on (D[0, 1])2 by accommodating for the different
convergence rates with appropriate matrix normalizations according to the estimator
employed in each case. Moreover, the limit results of these functionals20 can be utilized

to show the following type of stochastic convergence

                                          1ols(; 0) - 0(0)        = OP(1),                             (3.38)
                                n

where o1ls(; 0) is the quantile regression OLS based estimator21 that corresponds to
the subsample 1  t  n for some 0 <  < 1 and 0  (0, 1), when the quantile
regression has no model intercept. Intuitively, when the model structure incorporates
both intercept and slopes then the different convergence rates of these coefficients due to
the presence of nonstationarity is accommodated with the use of embedded normalization
matrices. Therefore, for the remaining of this section, we suppose that the parameter
vector is of the form () = (), () .

20Notice that the proposed functionals in this paper similar to the framework of Qu (2008), clearly

depend on the estimated parameter vector. Therefore, in our setting the assumption of a nonstationary

quantile model contributes to some challenging asymptotic theory aspects, which we are motivated to

tackle. Moreover, we shall note that a related large stream of literature considers functionals of estimated

residuals with associated test statistics such as CUSUM and CUSUM-square commonly employed in

the change-point literature. We avoid presenting the related literature here, as it beyond our scope.

21For instance, for the IVX estimator based on observations of the full sample the following order of
                                  ivx
convergence holds:  n  1+x             -  0())  =  OP(1),  which  is  proved by  Corollary 2  in  the  Appendix
                           2  (n ()

of the paper (see also Theorem 3.1 in Lee (2016)).

                                                    30
Katsouris C. (2021)        Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Consider the nonstationary quantile predictive regression (2.1)-(2.2) which includes a
model intercept. Then, testing for a structural break via a Wald type formulation based
on the OLS estimator implies to use the parameter vector () instead of ().

Proposition 2. Under the null hypothesis H0(A) and given that Assumptions 1-2 hold,
then the Wald type statistics weakly converge to the limit distributions below

                                       BBp+1()  2
                                        (1 - )
(i )       S  W  ols  ; 0   sup                    , for x  (0, 1)
                 n
                                [0,1]

(ii )      S  W  ols  ; 0   sup o0ls ; 0  0-1 ; 0 o0ls ; 0 , for x = 1
                 n              

where BBp+1(.) is a vector of (p+1) independent Brownian bridge processes on DRp+1 ([0, 1]).
Denote with

0-1 ; 0    := fut()(0)2 Sxx() - Sxx()Sx-x1(1)Sxx()
0ols ; 0
                            B ()                                      B(1) - B()              

           := S-xx1()                   -  Sxx(1) - Sxx() -1       1                           .
                           0 J c(r)dB                              0 J c(r)dB - 0 J c(r)dB

where -0 1 ; 0  R(p+1)×(p+1) and 0ols ; 0  R(p+1)×n since the model included
both an intercept and slopes.

The proof of Proposition 2 can be found in the Appendix of the paper. Notice that

-0 1 ; 0     represents the weakly convergence result of  the   inverse of the covariance
matrix of  the stochastic process n ^ (2)(0) - (2)(0)     , in  which case Wn(0) is the

Wald statistic for testing the null hypothesis H0 : ^ (2)(0) = 0.

                                           31
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

3.4.2 IVX-Wald test statistic

The instrumentation methodology proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) has been
proved to be robust in filtering abstract degree of persistence in predictive regression
models (see also Phillips and Lee (2013, 2016)). Our research objective in this section is
to study the asymptotic behaviour of the proposed structural break tests based on the
endogenous instrumentation procedure in nonstationary quantile predictive regressions.
In particular, the self-normalized sup IVX-Wald test function has been recently examined
by Katsouris (2021) as break detector for coefficients of linear predictive regressions.
Specifically, the supremum IVX-Wald test corresponds to the maximum22 of a sequence
of test statistics constructed based on sequential sample splitting locations such that
 = n where    := [, 1 - ] with 0 <  < 1/2. Furthermore, we employ the
dequantiled model structure and denote with i1vx(; 0) and 2ivx(; 0) the IVX based
estimators for the two sub-samples occurred at each splitting step. Therefore, these
estimators are computed via the following expressions

1ivx(;  0)      =         +j                   -1      +j                 ,                         (3.39)
                     1    t=1  z~1,t-1x1 ,t-1      1   t=1  z~1,t-1yt                               (3.40)

                                                     

i2vx(;  0)      =         1         n                  -1          1           n                 .
                          -    t=+1+j  z~2,t-1x2 ,t-1              -      t=+1+j    z~2,t-1yt

                       n                                        n

 where  = n for some 0 <  < 1 and the indicator j  {0, ..., (n - )} shows that a

sequence of parameter estimates is obtained by moving along all proportions within the
compact set  = [, 1-], to compute the maximum Wald statistic. However, for nota-
tion convenience we drop the index notation (+j) and (+1+j) which can be confused
with notation used for time-varying parameter estimates. Also, x1,t-1 := xt-11 {t  }
and x2,t-1 := xt-11 {t > }. Furthermore, Q~ 1(; 0) and Q~ 2(; 0) denotes the covari-
ance matrices which correspond to the two subsample parameter estimates and permits
to decompose the covariance matrix23 of the test with respect to each regime

Q~ 1 ; 0 = Z~ 1 X1 -1 Z~ 1 Z~ 1 X1Z~ 1 -1 Q~ 2 ; 0 = Z~ 2X2 -1 Z~ 2Z~ 2 X2 Z~ 2 -1

Then, under the null hypothesis, H0(A), the sup IVX-Wald statistic is formulated as

S       W  ivx     ; 0    := sup       invx      ; 0     V    ivx  ; 0       -1invx ; 0             (3.41)
           n                                                  n
                               

where invx ; 0  :=   1ivx(; 0) - 2ivx(; 0)             and    V    ivx  ; 0   := Q~ 1 ; 0 + Q~ 2 ; 0 .
                                                                   n

22Further details regarding the formulation of Wald type tests and asymptotic theory is presented in

the seminal study of Andrews (1993). The particular framework propose for structural change tests in

linear regression models under the assumption of stationary and ergodic time series.

23The decomposition of the covariance matrix for the IVX-Wald statistic can be obtained using a

formula for inverting partitioned matrices.  In  particular,  since  Z 1 X 2  =  Z     X  1  = 0 then the matrix
                                                                                    2

inversion formula simplifies further, allowing us to obtain an expression for the variance of the test.

                                                   32
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Theorem 1. Under the null hypothesis and given that Assumptions 1-2 hold, then the
sup IVX-Wald statistic weakly convergence to limit distribution below

           S  W  ivx  ; 0    sup         0ivx ; 0  i0vx ; 0                          -10ivx ; 0                 (3.42)
                 n
                                                                                                                (3.43)
                                                                                                                (3.44)
where  := [, 1 - ] with 0 <  < 1/2 and

0ivx ; 0 := W p() - c()W p(1)
i0vx ; 0 :=  Ip - c() Ip - c()  + (1 - )c()c()

such that

                                    cµ(r)dJ                          1     µ            -1
                                             c                             c         c
                 xx +       0    J              xx +              0     J     (r)dJ         , for x = 1

c() = Ip                                                                                    , for x  (0, 1)

where W p(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian motion, J c() =                                    e(-s)C  p  dB  (s)
                                                                                                  0

is an Ornstein-Uhkenbeck process and we denote with J µc () = J c() -                                1  J c(s)ds  and
                                                                                                     0

W pµ() = W p()-       1  W  (s)ds   the  demeaned  processes                  of  J  c()  and  W  p()   respectively.
                      0

Remark 4. Notice      tinhvxa(ti;nf0e)r.enMceoroenoverinv,xt(he)  critically depends on the estimator of the
covariance matrix V                                               estimation of the sparsity coefficient does

not affect the estimation accuracy when constructing test statistics in quantile time series

models due to the self-normalized property of Wald type tests. On the other hand, the

robust estimation of the covariance matrix is ensured by employing fully modified type

of transformations as in the linear model (see, Kostakis et al. (2015)).

Theorem 1 presents the asymptotic distribution of the sup IVX-Wald test under the
null hypothesis of a single unknown break-point. Furthermore, it covers some practical
considerations that arise in empirical work especially with respect to the persistence
properties of regressors. As we can observe from the asymptotic behaviour of the test for
local unit root regressors (high persistence), it converges to a nonstandard and nonpivotal
distribution. On the other hand, for mildly integrated regressors the test behaves in
large samples similar to the sup OLS-Wald test which weakly converge into a Brownian
bridge type of limit. In the former case, a comparison of the limit distributions of the two
tests does not necessarily indicate which test statistic might have better performance
in detecting structural breaks to the coefficients of nonstationary quantile predictive
regressions. To investigate the particular aspect, we use simulation experiments where
allow us to use a suitable experimental design that accommodates these conditions. The
proof of Theorem 1 can be found in the Appendix of the paper.

                                                33
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Some important implications follow from Theorem 1. More precisely, our asymptotic
theory analysis confirms some of the conclusions drawn in similar studies. For instance,
Hanson (2002) and Seo (1998) (see also Georgiev et al. (2018)) demonstrated that testing
for structural breaks with integrated regressors based on the OLS estimation method
converges to a nonstandard and nonpivotal limiting distribution. Furthermore, although
the IVX-Wald statistic is proved to be robust to abstract degree of persistence when
testing for parameter restrictions, within the structural break testing framework due
to the presence of the unknown break-point location, the sup IVX-Wald test similar
to the OLS counterpart is coverages to a nonpivotal limiting distribution, which is not
Brownian bridge (as defined in the stationary case) even though it is still tied down.

Nevertheless, some interesting further simplifications occur; for instance under the as-

sumption of mildly integrated regressors, it can be easily proved that the limiting dis-

tribution of the sup IVX-Wald test converges to a normalized Brownian bridge limit.

This occurs due to the asymptotic matrix moments such that, for 0 < x < 1 it holds

that  n    xt-1  z~          -xx  C    -1  by  expression  (20)  in  Phillips  and  Magdalinos  (2009).
      t=1            t-1               z
                                  n
Thus, it also holds that          t=1  xt-1z~         -xx C z-1 ,    which  implies  that  c()  =  I p .
                                               t-1

Furthermore, we also consider the limiting distribution of the sup IVZ-Wald test.

Corollary 5. Under the null hypothesis, H0(A) and suppose that Assumptions 1-2 hold,
then the sup IVZ-Wald statistic weakly convergence to the asymptotic distribution below

                     S    W  ivz  ; 0   sup         BBp()   2      for  0 < x  1.               (3.45)
                             n                      (1 - )
                                                             ,

                                           

where BBp(.) is a vector of p independent Brownian bridge processes on DRp ([0, 1]).

In summary, in this section we show that the limiting distribution of the sup IVX-Wald
test statistic under high persistence is nonstandard and nonpivotal. Furthermore, the
particular limit result simplifies when regressors in the model are assumed to be mildly
integrated resulting to weakly convergence into a Brownian bridge type limit. On the
other hand, when we construct the test statistic based on the IVZ estimator then the sup
IVZ-Wald test converges into a Brownian bridge type of limit regardless of the degree
of persistence. Lastly, for a known break-point Wald type tests converge to a nuisance-
parameter free limiting distribution, simplifying this way statistical inference. The proof
of Corollary 5 can be found in the Appendix.

Another important aspect we consider for the development of the asymptotic theory of
the paper, is the classical result of Huber for models with nonstandard conditions such
as quantile regression models. More specifically, the first order condition (FOC) defined
as the right derivative of the objective function plays a key role in deriving the asymp-
totic theory of estimators for the quantile model. In particular, we can show that the
parameter vector estimator solves these FOC and then apply a Bahadur representation
for the estimator. All these results hold with almost surely convergence in large samples.

                                                      34
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

4 Monte Carlo Experiments

Practically, it is unclear how well the asymptotic theory can provide reliable reference
and guidance in finite samples when applied to time series data since usually they can
exhibit abstract degree of persistence. However, under the assumption that regressors
incorporated in the quantile predictive regression model are generated by near unit root
processes for which their asymptotic behaviour is well-understood, then our test statis-
tics can provide an indication regarding the ability of the testing procedures in detecting
structural breaks in coefficients of nonstationary quantile predictive regression models.
Thus, to investigate the finite sample performance of the proposed tests for their ade-
quacy in detecting parameter instability we focus on the empirical size simulation results
as well as on asymptotic power analysis under relevant sequence of local alternatives.

4.1 Experimental Design

We conduct a number of Monte Carlo experiments to evaluate the performance of the
limit distribution of the Wald and fluctuation type statistics against the conventional
2 asymptotic approximation. We simulate the following data generating process

                     3

            yt =  + j xj,t-1 + ut,              1tn                       (4.1)
                                                                          (4.2)
                              j=1       0       0         
                                   n(cj, x)
                                                0          xt-1 + vt

            xt = n(c0j, x)

                     0                   0      n(cj, x)

where xt =  x1t, x1t, x1t , vt =  v1t, v1t, v1t  and n(cj, x) =  1 + cj . Then, the
                                                                      nx
innovation sequence of the model, denoted with et = (ut, vt) is generated such that

et  N 0(p+1)×1, ee , where ee is an (p + 1) × (p + 1) positive-definite covariance

matrix with a pre-specified variance-covariance structure given as below

                                                     
                                         u2u
                                  ee  =                                   (4.3)
                                                vv

where the matrix vv is of full rank p, resulting to a nonsingular matrix ee.

The coefficients of persistence are such that cj  {-1, -2, -5} and x is defined to be
x = 1 to simulate near unit root predictors and x = 0.75 to simulate mildly integrated
predictors. Moreover, we consider different sample size such that n  {250, 500, 750, 1000}.
Under the null hypothesis of no parameter instability we use the following parameters
 = 1, 1 = 0.25, 2 = 0.75, 3 = -0.50 and construct the proposed test statistics with
significance level  = 5%. For the IVX instrumentation we use cz = 1 and z = 0.95.

                                            35
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

In particular, to construct the test statistics the simulated pair {yt, xt}nt=1 is formulated:

                                                                     
                                 3                                 3
                                                                       + ut
yt = (1)() + j(1)()xj,t-1 1 t          + (2)() + j(2)()xj,t-1 1 t > 

  j=1                                               j=1

where  = n and the search over all possible subsets occurs for values of   .
                                                    
Denote with (j)() =  (j)(), 1(j)(), 2(j)(), 3(j)()
                                                     with j  {1, 2} to be the quantile

dependent parameter vector of each of the two regimes, for a fixed quantile 0 that

belongs in the compact set24 T such that 0 <  < 0 < 1 -  < 1.

Then, the testing hypothesis of interest is formulated as below

  H0(A) : (n1)() = n(2)() versus H1(A) : (n1)() = (n2)()               (4.4)

with a fixed quantile 0  T := [, 1 -], for an unknown break-point location  = n
where 0 <  < 1 and a significance level  = 5%.

4.2 Implementation

One important aspect for the correct implementation of the fluctuation based tests
(which involves the estimation of a subgradient) is that no nuisance parameter is needed
(in the case when the LUR process is not employed). More precisely, for the Wald
type statistics, we need a consistent estimate of the variance-covariance matrix 0. In
particular, it requires estimating the following matrix25

                                    n                            -1

                     H0 = plim      n-1 fy|x Fy-|x1 () xt-1xt-1        (4.5)
                                 n
                                           t=1

A discussion regarding methodologies for estimating the matrix given by expression
(4.5) can be found in Qu (2008). On the other hand, when we implement the quantile
predictive regression model with the presence of persistence covariates, then we will need
to examine the asymptotic properties of the above covariance estimator since it will be
a function of the unknown coefficient of persistence.

In summary, in this paper we take the position than when using Wald type statistics
as structural break detectors in nonstationary quantile predictive regression models, the
chosen estimator will affect the limit distribution of the tests and thus its finite-sample
performance, especially under the presence of high persistence regressors. In particular,
we have proved that when selecting the OLS estimator then the limit distribution is
nonstandard and nonpivotal making inference challenging since critical values can be

  24Notice that the compact set T falls strictly within the unit interval to allow the conditional distri-
bution to have an unbounded support.

  25Notice that the estimation of the sparsity function will affect the finite-sample performance of the
test statistics if not consistently estimated.

                                       36
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

constructed only with the use of bootstrap-based methodologies. On the other hand,
when the IVZ estimator is chosen then the limit distribution is proved to be nuisance-
parameter free regardless of the persistence properties driving the behaviour of regressors
employed when estimating the quantile predictive regression model.

Another relevant aspect to investigate is the sensitivity of the proposed test statistics to
the break-point location within the full sample. Therefore, for instance we are interested
to examine whether the proposed tests have roughly equal sensitivity to a break occurring
early or late in the sample (see, also Leisch et al. (2000)). We expect that the break-point
location will not affect the power performance of the proposed test statistics especially
due to the fact that we do not operate within a sequential monitoring scheme in which
case parameter estimates and functionals are updated continuously.

4.3 Simulation Results

The simulation results of the Monte Carlo experiments focus on the performance of the
tests by obtaining the empirical size and empirical power. In particular, we evaluate
the performance of the tests at different quantiles by employing the test statistics that
correspond to the fixed quantile level. More precisely, this allow us to check for structural
breaks at the median, or at the upper and lower quantiles for example, thus observing
the presence of parameter instability at different levels of the predictant with respect to
persistent predictors. Our simulation experiments verify the empirical and theoretical
results observed by Katsouris (2021) in the case of the linear predictive regression model,
that is, a trend of over-rejecting the null hypothesis when the OLS estimator is employed
when constructing structural break tests26.

Overall, the finite-sample results reflect the main conjectures presented in the asymp-
totic theory of the paper and appear to be reasonable for practical use in testing for
structural breaks in the coefficients of nonstationary quantile predictive regression mod-
els, especially with persistent regressors and endogeneity27. In practise, in those cases in
which the exact -level critical values for 0 <  < 1 depend on the unknown parameters
of persistence, we employ bootstrap based resampling methods for inference purposes.
Therefore, we can observe that these near unit root processes driving the regressors of
the model, can affect the ability of the proposed structural break tests for detecting
parameter instability in quantile predictive regression models. Specifically, in the sim-
ulation study of Wang and Phillips (2012), the authors mention that serial dependence
can affect power. Furthermore, the lower long-run signal strength in the regressor tends
to reduce disciminatory power.

  26Notice that the concept of spurious break is discussed by Hansen (2000) who emphasize that insta-
bility in the exogenous variables can cause over-rejection in the standard OLS-based tests.

  27Notice that exogeneity plays an important role in dealing with non-stationary variables. More
specifically, in Chapter of Banerjee et al. (1993) it is mentioned that dynamic regression equations in
which the conditioning is on weakly or strongly exogenous variables (for the parameter of interest)
provide asymptotically unbiased estimates.

                                                        37
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

5 Empirical Application

Our empirical application is concerned with the monitoring of the US housing price
index returns (HPI ). Using macroeconomic variables with predictive regression models
has been demonstrated in various studies. For instance, the empirical study of Paye
(2012) verifies the episodic predictability conclusions documented in the literature such
as in Gonzalo and Pitarakis (2012, 2017) (see also Demetrescu et al. (2020)). The author
finds statistical evidence of predictability in relation to countercyclical macroeconomic
events when forecasting volatility using predictive regressions with macroeconomic co-
variates. Furthermore, Atanasov et al. (2020) investigate the impact of consumption
fluctuations on predictability of expected returns using the IVX filter. Overall, our em-
pirical study focuses in the implementation of the proposed test statistics28; thus our
research goal here is to test for structural breaks in the relation between the predictant
and the predictors at various quantile levels of the underline data specific distribution.

5.1 Data Description

For the empirical application of our study, we utilize the dataset of Yang et al. (2020)
that includes the US housing price index returns along with ten common macroeconomic
variables. Specifically, the HPI covers more transactions and longer time interval, and
thus can well represent the trend of the national-wide housing price such as the housing
bubble collapsed during the 2007 subprime mortgage crisis. Furthermore, based on the
HPI the authors obtain the quarterly growth rate of the housing price and use this rate
as the dependent variable. More precisely, the ten macroeconomic variables are collected
from FRED, and all data are quarterly between 1975:Q1 and 2018:Q2.

    · CPI: Consumer price index with all items less shelter for all urban consumers (Index
        1982 to 1984 = 100).

    · DEF: The implicit price deflator of the gross domestic product (Index 2012 = 100).

    · GDP: %-Change of the gross domestic product from the preceding period.

    · INC: %-Change of the real disposable personal income from the quarter one year ago.

    · IND: The industrial production index (Index 2012 = 100). An economic indicator that
        measures real output for all U.S. located facilities manufacturing, mining, and electric,
        and gas utilities (excluding those in U.S. territories).

    · INT: The effective federal funds rate. The interest rate at which depository institutions
        trade federal funds (balances held at FRBs) with each other overnight.

  28Notice, that a different stream of literature proposes testing procedures for detecting market ex-
uberance and bubble effects. Our empirical application is concerned with the detection of structural
breaks in the data based on the nonstationary quantile predictive regression.

                                                        38
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

· INV: The shares of the residential fixed investment in the gross domestic product. Gross
   private domestic investment is a critical component of gross domestic product as it
   provides an indicator of the future productive capacity of the economy. Residential
   investment represents expenditures on residential structures and residential equipment
   that is owned by landlords and rented to tenants.

· MOG: 30-year mortgage rate. It represents contract interest rates on commitments for
   fixed-rate first mortgages.

· RES: The total reserve balances maintained with the Federal Reserve banks.

· UNE: The civilian unemployment rate. It represents the number of unemployed as a
   percentage of the labor force.

5.2 Data Analysis

We begin our analysis by applying standard unit root tests to the predictors29 employed
for the quantile predictive regression model. Furthermore, we test each individual pre-
dictor separately for the presence of parameter instability using a toolkit of various
structural break tests commonly employed in the literature. In particular, testing for
breaks in housing price indices has been previously studied by Canarella et al. (2012).
However, testing for quantile predictability as well as testing for breaks in nonstationary
quantile regressions is a novel aspect not previously examined in the literature.

Secondly, we implement the joint IVX-Wald statistic under the null hypothesis that all
slope coefficients simultaneously equal to zero30. More precisely, the particular hypothe-
sis correspond to the null hypothesis of no quantile predictability. Thus, formulating the
model in this manner allow us to investigate whether there is a stable relation between
regressand and regressors at a specific quantile level31 0  (0, 1).

Thirdly, we implement the joint IVX-Wald statistic under the null hypothesis that at
least two of the slope coefficients have no structural break throughout the sample.

  29Notice that we have t = 1, ..., 174 time series observations which correspond to quarterly economic
indicators and macroeconomic variables.

  30We consider rejections of the null hypothesis at significance level 5% to match the rejection proba-
bilities employed in the simulation study of the paper.

  31In particular, the empirical study presented by Lee (2016) demonstrates statistical evidence of
predictive ability using the nonstationary qunatile predictive regression model, at some specific quantiles
of stock returns such as at lower or upper quantiles while on the other hand evidence of predictability
disappear at the median of the conditional distribution of stock returns.

                                                        39
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

6 Conclusion

In this paper we develop a framework for structural break detection for nonstationary
quantile predictive regression models, under the null hypothesis of no structural break32.
A major challenge when deriving the asymptotic theory of these structural break tests
is to obtain nuisance-parameter free limit distributions which is not a trivial task due to
the stochastic approximation terms that depend on nuisance parameters, such as higher
order covariance terms as functions of the coefficients of persistence that capture the time
series properties of regressors. More precisely, we establish the asymptotic distributions
for both Wald type (i.e., as in Andrews (1993)) and fluctuation type tests (i.e., as in
Qu (2008)) with respect to two different estimation methods, that is, the OLS and IVX
estimators33. Our test statistics show to have good finite-sample properties as shown by
the Monte Carlo experiments in which we obtain the empirical size and power.

Firstly, we verify that indeed the self-normalization of Wald type statistics when testing
the null hypothesis of no predictability in quantile predictive regressions results to a
nuisance-free distribution, that is, ensuring their pivotal property (as also proved by
Lee (2016) for abstract degree of persistence). Secondly, we demonstrate that the limit
distribution of the proposed test statistics for structural break detection is not depending
on the particular choice of the estimator of the quantile predictive regression model under
mildly integrated; however under high persistence the choice of the estimator alters the
limit theory due since different weakly convergence arguments apply. Furthermore,
keeping the quantile level fixed versus testing for breaks across multiple quantile levels
requires to consider extending the limit result into the two-parameter Gaussian process,
for the latter case. Moreover, bootstrap-based methodologies can be applied when the
limit distribution is nonstandard, allowing to infer regarding the presence of structural
breaks under these conditions (e.g., high persistence).

Further research worth mentioning includes to extend the current framework proposed in
this paper, for quantile predictability tests robust to parameter instability. The specific
application has important implications, from both the theoretical as well as the empirical
perspective, especially under nonstationarity, since currently the common practise in the
literature is the proposition of methods that investigate these two aspects separately.
Additionally, our framework can be extended to the alternative hypothesis of multiple
structural breaks as in Qu (2008) as well as within a multivariate setting such that the
framework proposed by the study of Qu and Perron (2007).

  32Notice that we avoid to explicitly use the terminology of a null hypothesis of "stationarity" versus
an alternative hypothesis of "non-stationarity" (see Pitarakis (2014) and Kwiatkowski et al. (1992)).
Specifically, within our setting these two terms are interpreted in relation to the persistence properties
of model predictors rather that with respect to the parameter constancy of coefficients in terms of
temporal dependence. Related limit theory and conditions relevant to temporal dependence specifically
for quantile and tail empirical processes can be found in Chapter 5 of De Haan and Ferreira (2006).

  33Notice in the study of Phillips and Park (1988) the authors demonstrate the asymptotic equivalence
of OLS and GLS based estimators in regression models with integrated regressors.

                                                        40
Katsouris C. (2021)                  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Acknowledgements This paper is part of my Ph.D thesis at the Department of Economics

of the University of Southampton. I am deeply indebted to my academic advisors Jose Olmo
and Tassos Magdalinos as well as to Jean-Yves Pitarakis for helpful discussions and constructive
feedback. I am also grateful for given the chance to participate to various econometrics seminars
and conferences during the Ph.D candidature. The author declares no conflicts of interests.

7 APPENDIX

We provide detailed mathematical derivations for the proofs of main asymptotic theory.
Relevant references are Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Qu (2008).

7.1 Proofs of asymptotic theory results

For b  Rp we define (see, Lee (2016) and Galvao et al. (2014)) the empirical process:

                                                 n

  Gn (, b) := n-(1+x)/2 zt-1 ×  ut () - xt-1b - EFt-1  ut () - xt-1b

                                               t=1

such that (, b)  T × B  Gn (, b) is stochastically equicontinous for any  > 0.

7.1.1 Proof of Corollary 2

The consistency of the OLS quantile estimator is derived by Koenker and Xiao (2006).
Here, we prove the convergence rate for the IVX-QR estimator by employing standard
methods from from the literature of extremum estimators and the regularity conditions
imposed by Bickel (1975). Thus, we aim to show that

                              invx-qr () -  () = OP n-(1+z)/2 .                                  (7.1)

Proof.   For  the  remaining     of  the  proof  we  denote  with     ivx-qr  ()     :=n(n()-) tos(im)p,liwfyhnicoh-
tation.
                                                                   n
                                                                        
         Then,  consider  the       estimator  distance  such  that  E  n  ()   =

implies that by evaluating Gn(, b) at b = En() we obtain the following expression

Gn(, b)            = n-  (1+z    )   n           ut () - xt-1En ()         - EFt-1    ut () - xt-1En()
                              2
                                       z~t-1
         b=En ()
                                    t=1

Next, we apply the result34 given by Lemma 2, which implies that for some constant C1

                   sup Gn (, b) - Gn (, 0) : b  n(1+x)/2C1 = oP(1).                              (7.2)

34The norm . represents the Euclidean norm, i.e., x =                p     x2i  1/2  for x  Rp.
                                                                     i=1

                                                     41
Katsouris C. (2021)                                Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Moreover, for b = 0 the following empirical process holds

                                                   (1+z    )    n
                                                        2
             Gn(,      0)  =                   n-                    z~t-1  ut () - EFt-1  ut ()                                           (7.3)

                                                                t=1

Therefore, the argument of Lemma 2 is expanded as below

Gn(,  b)  -  Gn(,  0)  =   n-                  (1+z    )  n                  ut  ()  -   xt-1E      ()      - EFt-1                ut  ()  -  xt -1  E     ()
                                                    2                                            n                                                      n
                                                            z~t-1

                                                          t=1

                                                   (1+z      )  n
                                                        2
                           - n-                                      z~ t-1       ut ()  - EFt-1  ut ()

                                                                t=1

                                               (1+z    )  n                  ut () - xt-1En() P 0
                                                    2
                       = n-                                     z~t-1

                                                          t=1

                                                   (1+z      )  n                       ut () - xt-1En()
                                                        2
                           - n-                                      z~ E t-1 Ft-1  

                                                                t=1

                                                   (1+z      )  n                                (1+z    )  n
                                                        2                                             2
                           - n-                                      z~ t-1   ut ()      + n-                 EFt-1               ut ()       =0

                                                                t=1                                         t=1

Taking the absolute value since the result holds for the Euclidean norm we obtain

                                               (1+z    )  n     z~t-1 ut () + z~t-1EFt-1  ut () - xt-1E n()
                                                    2
Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0)      = n-                                                                                                                   + oP(1).

                                                          t=1

Similarly, with the embedded normalization matrices an equivalent expression holds

                                            n  Z~ t-1,n ut () + Z~ t-1,nEFt-1  ut () - Xt-1,nE n ()                                           + oP(1).

Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0) =

                           t=1

 Then, the conditional expectation EFt-1  ut() - xt-1En() can be expanded
around the point E() = 0 using the first-order taylor expansion since the term ()xt-1
is strictly monotonic, uniformly on { xt-1  } where     1 -  for some  > 0
(see, Theorem 1 of Neocleous and Portnoy (2008)). Hence, we have that

EFt-1  ut() - xt-1E n ()                                   EFt-1  ut() - xt-1E n()

                                                                                                                         E ()=0

                                                                   + EFt-1  ut() - xt-1E ()                             × En () + oP En () .
                                                                                     E ()
                                                                                                                 E ()=0

Note that E() = 0 implies that  () =  (). Moreover, by definition of (.) and by
applying standard results for the conditional expectation operator we obtain that

             EFt-1  ut() - E ()xt-1                                    =  - EFt-1 1 ut() < E()xt-1

                                                                       =-            xt-1 E  ()  fut (),t-1 (s)ds                          (7.4)
                                                                                    

                                                                              42
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Hence, by differentiating expression (7.4) around the neighbourhood of E() we get

                 EFt-1  ut() - xt-1E ()                           = -xt-1fut(),t-1(0)                    (7.5)
                                E ()                                                                     (7.6)
                                                           E ()=0

Therefore, it holds that

                 EFt-1  ut() - xt-1                =  -xt -1  fut(),t-1   (0)E       ()  +  oP(1)
                                                                                 n

Next substituting the limit given by (7.6) into the original expansion for the term
Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0) as well as by replacing xt-1 with the corresponding embedded
normalization matrix Xt-1,n we obtain the expression

Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0)

                          n                 (0)Z~                   1+z   n() - ()
                                                                       2
 Knz , () -                    fut  (),t-1         t-1,nX       n-                          + oP(1)      (7.7)
                                                           t-1                                           (7.8)

                          t=1                                                                            (7.9)

where

                                                                     n

                          Knz , () := D-n 1 Z~ t-1 ut()

                                                                   t=1

Moreover, we define with

                     M nz , () :=                  n               (0)Z~         X~  
                                                                                     t-1,n
                                                      fut  (),t-1         t-1,n

                                            t=1

Next, by noting that from Lemma 2 it holds that sup Gn(, b) - Gn(, 0) = oP(1),
then by rearranging expression (7.7) we obtain that

       n 1+z     n() - ()                                       -1
              2
                                    =  M nz , ()                    Knz , () + oP(1)                     (7.10)

which proves the result given by expression (7.1). In               summary,we              proved that  n ()
is a consistent estimator of  () with convergence                   rate n z n              where z      (0, 1).

Furthermore, using the result given by expression (7.10) we can prove the limit results

summarized in Corollary 2 using the asymptotic results presented in Corollary 3.

Remark 5. Notice that for the proof of Corollary 3, we use the fact that

                 1n   n        ut()    P N         0, (1 - )        for some   (0, 1),                   (7.11)
                     t=1

since due to the structure of the model the quantile regression induced innovation term
 ut()  mds 0, (1 - ) , i.e., it has a covariance which depends on the quantile .

                                                      43
Katsouris C. (2021)              Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.2 Proof of Corollary 3

Part (i)                                                                                          (7.12)

We begin by considering the limiting distribution of the functional,

                                                                           n

                     Knx , nols() := Dn-1 Xt-1 ut()  Kx , ols()

                                                                          t=1

                                                               
                                       
                                                B (1)                             LUR,
                                                                                  MI.
                                               1

Kx                   , ols()                   0 J c(r)dB

                                       N            (1  -   )  ×              
                                               0,                 1      0 
                                                                        V xx
                                                                   0

Proof. Mildly Integrated: (MI)

By expanding the expression for Knx , nols() , for the mildly integrated regressors
case we obtain the following expression

                        n

Knx , onls() = D-n 1 Xt-1 ut()

=                        t=1     0                             n    1             ×    ut()
                                                                  xt-1
                   1n            1+x                      ×             (p+1)×n
                                    2
                     0     n-          I  p  (p+1)×(p+1)    t=1

                 n-11+n2xt=n1nx tu-t1()                     

=                                               1( 1×n)                  Np+1     0, (1 - ) ×  1   0      .
                                               ut()  I                                         0  V xx
                                                            p

                              t=1                              (p+1)×n

                                       1        n                       n-  1+x   n
                                         n     t=1                             2
Since the two scalar processes                        ut()        and                  xt-1 ut()  are

                                                                                  t=1
uncorrelated with negligible higher-order moment terms, thus mutually independent

Gaussian with zero mean and variance 1 and and V xx respectively. Therefore, a joint
convergence to a Gaussian random variate holds due to their conditional independence.

To see this, consider the following limit

                     1+x      n
                        2
n-                               xt-1 ut()  Ip  N 0, (1 - )V xx                                   (7.13)

                           t=1

when 0 < x < 1.

                                                        44
Katsouris C. (2021)             Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Remark 6. Further details regarding these derivations can be found in the proof of
Theorem 1 in Xiao (2009). Notice that although the proof of Theorem 1 in Xiao (2009)
corresponds to the framework of quantile cointegrating regression model, after appropri-
ate modifications we can obtain the limit given by expression (7.13). Furthermore, joint
convergence of these two terms holds to a Gaussian random variable with mean vector
zero and covariance matrix determined by the covariance of each individual term.

Additionally, the following invariance principle for the corresponding partial sum process
holds for the exponent rate 0 < x < 1 such that

                    1+x    n
                       2
                n-              xt-1 ut()  Ip  N 0, (1 - )V xx .                              (7.14)

                           t=1

which is useful when deriving the convergence limit for the OLS based functionals.

Local Unit Root: (LUR)

                                  n

K nx  , onls()          = Dn-1 X t-1 ut()

                                  t=1      
                                           
                             1         0                       n   1(1×n)
                               n          p                   t=1   xt-1
                        =            1        (p+1)×(p+1)  ×                         ×  ut()
                                     nI
                             0                                             (p+1)×n

                                1n    n                       
                           
                                  n       ut()   1                                         
                                                 I                         
                        =            t=1                   p                  B (1)        

                                     xt-1 ut()                               1

                             1                                               0 J c(r)dB (p+1)×n

                             n t=1                              (p+1)×n

where xt =  Ip  +   Cp     xt-1 + vt, for 1  t  n, since Xt-1 =              1   xt -1  
                     n
                                                                                        .

Therefore, for deriving the limit result above the following weakly convergence arguments
can be applied

      1n     n            ut()     B (1)  and              1n      n       ut()   B()         (7.15)
            t=1                                                    t=1

for some 0 <  < 1 and   (0, 1), where B(1) is a standard Brownian motion that
corresponds to the error function  ut() .

Remark 7. Overall, in the case of LUR regressors (i.e., under high persistence) the
convergence to Brownian motion functionals occurs due to the different normalization
rates employed for these terms. Furthermore, since the local unit root coefficient is
a general case that covers abstract degrees of persistence, then in practise we have
convergence to correlated Brownian motions.

                                                45
Katsouris C. (2021)                  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Part (ii)

Next, we consider the limiting distribution of the functional, Lnx , onls() for the two
persistence classes separately as explained below.

Local Unit Root: (LUR)

We obtain the following expression

              d=ef D-n 1     n

Lnx , nols()                    fut(),t-1     (0)X  t-1    X          D-n 1
                                                              t-1

                          t=1                n                               n                                                     
                                                                                                         
                   1                           fut (),t-1 (0)                   fut (),t-1 (0)xt -1        1
              =      n        0                                          n                                   n                 0   
                             1           n t=1                              t=1                             0                 1
                   0         nI  p                                                                                            nIp
                                            fut (),t-1 (0)xt-1               fut (),t-1 (0)xt-1 xt -1

                                       t=1                               t=1                            
                                                                                                        
                  1    1         n   fut (),t-1 (0)                    1     n   fut(),t-1(0)xt-1            1                       
                   n     n      t=1                                      n  t=1                        p       n
              =                                                                                               0                0     
              =       n                                       1       n                                                       1
                                                              n
                  1       fut(),t-1(0)xt-1  Ip                           fut(),t-1(0)xt-1xt-1       I                         nIp
                   n
                      t=1                                          t=1                                       

                             1    n                                   1  1       n
                                 t=1                                  n    n
                             n        fut (),t-1 (0)                  1        ft=ut1(f)u,tt-(1)(,t0-)1x(t0-)1xxt-t -11IIpp 
                                                                     n2    n
                      1n     n
                                                                         t=1
                                 fut(),t-1(0)xt-1           Ip
                             t=1 
                                                             1
                                                              c(Jrc)(Jrc)( r)
               fut()(0) ×                  1            1  0

                                         1                 J

                                      0  J c(r)      0

Since, the following convergence in probability holds

                          1   n                    P    E  fut (),t-1 (0)        =: fut()(0)                                  (7.16)
                          n
                                 fut(),t-1(0)

                             t=1

Moreover, recall that for the case of LUR regressors it holds that

                                              nqr() - ()
Dn nqr() - qr() =             n0              nqr() - ()
                             0 nIp

                                      n                                              -1             n

                       D-n 1               fut(),t-1  (0)X    t-1     X        Dn-1      × Dn-1 Xt-1 ut()
                                                                         t-1

                                      t=1                                J01c(Jrc)(Jrc)( r)-1       t=1

                                                                                                                              
                          fut () (0)                                                              
                                           ×         1                1                        ×     B (1)                    

                                                   1                                                1

                                                0   J c(r)         0                                0 J c(r)dB

which follows by an application of the continuous mapping theorem to the first term of
the expression above. Notice that in the case of persistent regressors, the limiting distri-
bution of the normalized quantile OLS based estimator is nonstandard and nonpivotal.

                                                              46
Katsouris C. (2021)                  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Mildly Integrated: (MI)

We obtain the following expression

Lnx , nols()  d=ef D-n 1       n                                     Dn-1
                                                                t-1
                                  fut  (),t-1(0)X     t-1    X

                            t=1                                                                                     
                                                                                                                    
                                  1   n                                       1       n
                                     t=1
                                  n       fut(),t-1(0)                     n1+   x        fut(),t-1(0)xt-1   Ip
                                                                           1                                 I
              =          1        n                                              2   t=1
                      n1+                                                n1+x
                                                                                  n

                            x        fut (),t-1 (0)xt-1         Ip                    fut(),t-1(0)xt-1xt-1       p

                            2 t=1                                                t=1

                 fut()(0)         ×  1        0                                                              (7.17)
                                      0      V xx

Since it holds that,

1         n                          and          1       n               P    V          when x  (0, 1),
                                                n1+x
n1+  x       xt-1 P 0                                        xt-1 xt -1             xx
      2
         t=1                                             t=1

where the second limit follows by Lemma B3 in the Appendix of Kostakis et al. (2015).

Therefore, for the case of mildly integrated regressors in the model we obtain

                                                                           
                                                      nqnqrr
Dn qnr() - qr()       = n              n    0   I             ()  -  ()
                            0                                 ()  -  ()
                                          1+x      p
                                             2

                                          n                                               -1            n

                       D-n 1                 fut   (),t-1  (0)X   t-1  X         D-n 1        × D-n 1 Xt-1 ut()
                                                                          t-1

                                          t=1                  -1                                       t=1 
                                                               
                                             ×  1        0             ×  N    0,    (1   -   )  ×  1     0 
                            fut()(0)             0                                                   0  V xx
                                                         V xx 
                                                                                                        
                                                      0                                           0 
                      =         1         × 1            -1    ×  N  0,    (1    -   )    ×  1   V xx
                            fut()(0)          0       V  xx                                   0

                                                                         
                                                                  0 
                            N     0,   (1 - )         ×  1           -1                                      (7.18)
                                       fut () (0)2        0     V    xx

by an application of the continuous mapping theorem to the first term.

Remark 8. Notice also that the limit results given by Corollary 3 can be used to prove
the limiting distribution provided by Corollary 1 of the paper. This can be done, by
employing the trick presented in the proof of Theorem 1 in Xiao (2009). In particu-
lar, by linearizing the optimization function in terms of an arbitrary centered quantity
Dn n() - () . Thus, using the convexity lemma we take the distributional limit of
the linearized part and then minimize to get the desired expression as in (7.10).

                                                           47
Katsouris C. (2021)                    Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.3 Proof of Corollary 4

Proof. For the IVX based estimation of the quantile regression model, we use the dequan-
tile procedure proposed by Lee (2016). Thus, yt() = yt-()+OP(n-1/2). Furthermore,
we employ the following embedded normalization matrices

Z~ t-1,n := D~ nz~t-1           and         X~ t-1,n := D~ nxt-1,        where          D~ n  :=  n I 1+(xz)2    p  (7.19)

Part (i)

The limit holds regardless of the stochastic dominance of the exponent rates x and z

        Knz , nivx()            :=     n                          n 1+(xz )           n                       Ip
                                                                                   2
                                         Z~ t-1 ut()                                    z~t-1 ut()

                                       t=1                                            t=1

                                 N 0, (1 - )V cxz .                                                                 (7.20)

Part (ii)

           M nz , nivx()               n                 (0)Z~  t-1,nZ~  
                                                                         t-1,n
                                   :=       fut  (),t-1                               fut()(0)    ×  V  cxz         (7.21)

                                       t=1

which can be easily shown, since                 n    z~t-1z~t-1     P   V  cxz .
                                                 t=1

Part (iii)

Then,   Z~  t-1,nX~             D~ nz~t-1x~t-1D~ n.      Therefore,      the    limit   result    follows    as  below
                     t-1,n

M nz , invx() :=                n             (0)Z~          X~           D~ n          n                               D~  
                                                                 t-1,n                                                      n
                                   fut(),t-1          t-1,n                                fut(),t-1(0)z~t-1x~ t-1

                              t=1                                                     t=1

                      fut()(0) × cxz

Since,  a  convergence      in  probability      holds   1      n    fut (),t-1 (0)   P    E  fut(),t-1(0)       =: fut()(0).
                                                         n      t=1

Moreover, we have that

D~ n nivx-qr() - ()

             D~ n    n                                   D~ n    -1                  n

                            fut (),t-1 (0)z~ t-1 xt -1              ×       D~ n z~t-1 ut()

                     t=1                                                           t=1

                                       -1

            fut()(0) × cxz × N 0, (1 - )V cxz

                 1      × -cx1z    ×   N    0, (1 - )V cxz
             fut()(0)

           =N  0,    (1 - )        -cx1z V  cxz  -cx1z          N        0,   (1 - )          cxzV c-x1zc xz -1         .
                     fut()(0)2                                                fut()(0)2

                                                             48
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

The above result proves the Gaussian random variable limit given by Corollary 2 which
holds for both the cases of local unit root and mildly integrated regressors in the quantile
predictive regression model. Furthermore, in the case we employ the alternative IVX-QR
estimator proposed by Lee (2016) (IVZ estimator); in which case the set of nonstationary
regressors, xt-1, is replaced by the mildly integrated instruments, z~t-1, we obtain the
following limit result

        D~ n nivz-qr() - ()  fut()(0) × V cxz                          -1

                                                                           × N 0, (1 - )V cxz

                                        =          1     ×  V  -1   ×  N   0, (1 - )V cxz
                                               fut()(0)        cxz

                                        =N       0,  (1 - ) V       -1                         (7.22)
                                                     fut()(0)       cxz

since,  n    fut  (),t-1(0)Z~  t-1,nZ~           fut()(0) × V       cxz ,  which  is  nuisance-parameter  free
        t=1                             t-1,n

for both the case of local unit root or mildly integrated regressors in the model.

Remark 9. Notice that in a standard time series quantile regression with stationary
covariates it holds that the regression -quantile is asymptotically normal, with

                       n - ()           d N      0, (1 - )D1-1()D0D1-1() .                     (7.23)
                    n

with an appropriate defined covariance matrix which is a function of the moments of
the underline error distribution (see, Goh and Knight (2009)). Therefore, we can clearly
see that under nonstationarity the covariance matrix of the Gaussian random variate is
stochastic due to the presence of the nuisance parameter of persistence.

Remark 10. Notice that the objective function for the setting of the nonstationary
quantile predictive regression model, becomes globally convex in the parameter. Hence,
the method based on the convexity lemma by Pollard (1991) is applicable. Therefore,
our proofs for the asymptotic theory of test of parameter restrictions is based on the
asymptotic theory framework proposed by Xiao (2009). Consequently, the limit results
for the linear parameter restrictions can be employed when constructing the parameter
specific restrictions that correspond to structural break tests.

                                                         49
Katsouris C. (2021)                  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.4 Alternative IVZ-QR estimator

Following the framework proposed by Lee (2016) we also consider the limiting distri-
bution of the IVX-QR estimator when the original persistent regressors are replaced
by the instrumental variables in the optimization function. The particular approach is
convenient as it significantly reduces the computational time by avoiding the nonconvex
optimization procedure given by expression (2.18) which requires to use a grid search
with several local optima. More specifically, we consider

                             ivx-qr                   n
                             n
                                     ()  :=  arg min        yt() - z~t-1                  .                    (7.24)

                                                Rp    t=1

Corollary 6. Under the null hypothesis H0 : () = 0, it holds that

                       D~ n nivx-qr() - ()  N               0,  (1 - )               V  -1                     (7.25)
                                                                fut()(0)2               cxz

both  for  near  unit  root  and  mildly     integrated   predictors,         where     D~ n  =  n 1+xz        Ip.
                                                                                                            2

Lemma 3. (Self-normalized IVX-QR) Under Assumption 1 it holds that,

           fut()(0)2     ivx-qr  ()  -    ()    Z~ Z~ -1    ivx-qr            ()  -  ()        p2              (7.26)
           (1 - )        n                                  n

such that fut()(0)2 is a consistent estimator of fut()(0)2 and p degrees of freedom.

Therefore, Lemma 3 provides a uniform inference limit result which allows to easily
obtain critical values since is nuisance-parameter free. Furthermore, if we are interested
to test for example the predictability of a specific subgroup among the predictors, say
H0 : 1() = 2() = 0, then the formulation of the Wald statistic with the linear
restrictions matrix can be employed. In the particular example, the restrictions matrix
takes the form R = I2, 02×(p-2) . Then, generalizing the specific example for testing a
set of linear restrictions, implies that the null hypothesis is formulated as H0 : R() = 0
where R is a r × p known restriction matrix.

Then, the limiting distribution for the IVX-Wald statistic for the quantile predictive
regression is given by the following expression

           fut () (0)2   R   ivx-qr  ()                                   -1  R   ivx-qr  ()   2p-2
           (1 - )            n                                                    n
                                              R Z~ Z~ -1R

where p2-2 denotes the chi-square random variate with (p - 2) degrees of freedom such
that P 2  2p-2; = , where 0 <  < 1 denotes the significance level.

                                                      50
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.5 Proof of Lemma 1

We have that

Wnivx-qr ()  =  fut()(0)2    nivx-qr() - ()               XP Z~ X          invx-qr() - ()  2p (7.27)
                (1 - )

where

                        Z~ Z~ -1 Z~ X              n                         n                  -1      n             

XP Z~ X := XZ~                                        xt-1 z~ t -1              z~ t-1 z~ t -1             xt-1z~t-1

                                                  t=1                      t=1                       t=1

Moreover, we use the embedded normalization matrices such that

n                       n    Z~ t-1,nX                 n                (0)Z~                       P fut()(0)cxz

   fut(),t-1(0) ×                                          fut  (),t-1          t-1,n  X  
                                        t-1,n                                             t-1,n

t=1                     t=1                           t=1

                   n    zt-1z~t-1 P V cxz.

and the fact that

                   t=1

Proof. From Corollary 2 we have that

D~ n nivx-qr () -  () =      n                                               -1   n

                                    fut(),t-1   (0)Z~     t-1,n  X                  fut(),t-1(0)Z~ t-1,n ut()
                                                                    t-1,n

                             t=1                                                  t=1

                             N      0,  (1 - )         ×   cxz V    -1     cxz    -1
                                        fut()(0)2                   cxz

Denote the consistent sample estimator of fut()(0), with fut()(0) where                                         (7.28)

                                                                                   n

                                        fut()(0) = fut(),t-1(0)

                                                                                 t=1

Therefore, the following asymptotic convergence result follows

XP Z~ X            fut()(0)cxz      ×   V  -1   ×     fut()(0)cxz   fut()(0)2                    cxz V     -1   cxz
                                           cxz                                                             cxz

Thus, we obtain

       Wnivx-qr ()               1      ×  N      0,  (1 - )        ×      cxz V       -1   cxz  -1
                             (1 -                     fut()(0)2                        cxz
                                    )

                                    ×   fut()(0)2 ×        cxz V        -1   cxz
                                                                        cxz

                                        ×N         0,  (1 - )       ×        cxz V     -1   cxz     -1
                                                       fut()(0)2                       cxz

                                                      51
Katsouris C. (2021)           Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

                  fut()(0)2  (1 - )                                            -1    
                  (1 - )     fut()(0)2
Wnivx-qr ()                              ×    N  0,  cxz V         -1   c xz
                                                                   cxz

             ×    cxz V  -1   cxz   -1 ×      N  0,  cxz V         -1   c xz   -1
                         cxz                                       cxz

             = N (0, 1)      cxz V  -1   cxz  -1/2                 cxz V  -1   c xz  ×  cxz V    -1   c xz  -1/2  N (0, 1)
                                    cxz                                   cxz                    cxz
                                                      ×

             = N (0, 1) 2  22.

which is a standard 2-distribution with 2 degrees of freedom.

7.1.6 Proof of Proposition 1

Proof.

 Part (i)
First we consider the limit expression for the case of mildly integrated regressors

L := J^n , 0, nols(0) - J^n 1, 0, nols(0)

                                                                                                                    
             n                      -1/2             n                                      n                       

= D-n 1           Xt-1Xt-1 D-n 1            D-n 1         Xt-1 ut(0) - D-n 1 Xt-1 ut(0) 

             t=1                                     t=1                                t=1

        1 0       -1/2                           1    0                                          1   0
        0 V xx                                   0   V xx                                        0  V xx
                         N    0, 0(1 - 0)                          - N         0, 0(1 - 0)

= 0(1 - 0)        1 0         -1/2 N 0,  1 0                              - N 0, 1 0
                  0 V xx                          0 V xx                                 0 V xx

                  1 0         -1/2          1 0      1/2
                  0 V xx                    0 V xx
= 0(1 - 0)                                               × N (0, Ip) - N (0, Ip)

 0(1 - 0) W p() - W p(1) .

Therefore, for some 0 <  < 1 and 0  (0, 1)

                              SQnols(; 0)  sup                     BBp()         .                          (7.29)
                                                            [0,1]
                                                                               

which is a nuisance-parameter free distribution that holds under the null hypothesis.

In summary, suppose that the data are generated by the quantile predictive regression
model and Assumptions 1-2 are satisfied. Then, under the null null hypothesis H0(A)
the fluctuation type statistics weakly converge to the limiting distribution given by
expression (7.29) for mildly integrated regressors for some unknown break-point location
0 <  < 1.

                                                     52
Katsouris C. (2021)                      Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Second, for local unit root regressors (high persistence) then, following limit holds

L := J^n , 0, onls(0) - J^n 1, 0, onls(0)

                                                                                                                           
              n                                  -1/2              n                                       n               

= Dn-1             Xt-1Xt-1 D-n 1                Dn-1                   Xt-1 ut(0) - D-n 1 Xt-1 ut(0) 

              t=1                                                  t=1                                   t=1

                             1                 -1/2                                                             

          1               1  0  c(Jrc)(Jrc)( r)  ×                  B ()        -                  1  B (1)     
                                                                                                      J c(r)dB
        1                    J                                     

     0    J c(r)       0                                           0 J c(r)dB        0

                             1                 -1/2                                                      

          1            1  0  c(Jrc)(Jrc)( r)     ×                      B() - B (1)                      

        1                 J                                                                     1

     0    J c(r)   0                                               0 J c(r)dB -  0 J c(r)dB

                                      1              -1/2

  1 1                              1  0  c(Jrc)(Jrc)((1r×)(pp)×p)             × BB ()(1×n)                         (7.30)
         J c(r)(p×1)                                                              J B ()(p×n) (p+1)×n
                                      J

     0                          0                                (p+1)×(p+1)

                                                                                                                1
where BB() := B () - B (1) and J B () := 0 J c(r)dB -  0 J c(r)dB.
Thus, under the null hypothesis the OLS based functional with local unit root regressors

converges into a nonstandard and nonpivotal limiting distribution.

 Part (ii)
The limit expression of the fluctuation type test based on the IVX estimator is given as

L := J^n , 0, invx(0) - J^n 1, 0, nivx(0)                                                                     
                                         
     n                                -1/2 n                                  n                               
          Z~                                     Z~ t-1,n ut(0) -                  Z~ t-1,n ut(0) 
=             t-1,n X                    
                       t-1,n

     t=1                                       t=1                            t=1                                  

= D~ n-1      n                       D~ -n 1  -1/2 D~ n-1 n z~t-1 ut(0)             - D~ n-1         n            

                 z~t-1xt-1                                                                                 z~t-1 ut(0) 

              t=1                                                  t=1                                t=1

 -cx1z/2 × N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz - N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz

= 0(1 - 0) × -cx1z/2 × N 0, V cxz - N 0, V cxz  0(1 - 0) W p() - W p(1) .

 provided that cxz  V xx, which applies when x  (0, z). Proposition 1 (ii) shows
that the limiting distribution of the fluctuation type test is nonstandard in general when
the IVX estimator is employed since we employ limit results which hold for both LUR
and MI regressors. However, when the coefficient of persistence of regressors has an
exponent rate with an absolute value less than the exponent rate of the mildly inte-
grated instruments, then the asymptotic covariance matrix of the Gaussian variant has
a simpified form due to the stochastic dominance property of these covariance matrices.

                                                                   53
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Part (iii)

We obtain the following limit result which holds for both LUR and MI regressors

L := J^nivz , 0, nivz(0) - J^nivz 1, 0, invz (0)                                                                   
                 
   Z~ Z~ -1/2 D~ -n 1 n z~t-1                                                        n                             
=                                         yt - z~t-1invz(0)               - D~ -n 1            yt - z~t-1invz (0)  
                                                                                        z~t-1

                      t=1                                                            t=1                               

= D~ -n 1      n               D~ n-1  -1/2 D~ n-1 n z~t-1 yt - z~t-10(0)                      - D~ -n 1  n            

                  z~t-1z~t-1                                                                                   xt-1 yt - z~t-10(0) 

            t=1                             t=1                                                           t=1

   V  -1/2  ×    N    0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz      - N       0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz
      cxz

=  V  -1/2  ×    0(1 - 0) × N 0, V cxz             - N 0, V cxz
      cxz

=     0(1   -  0)  V  -1/2  ×  V  1/2  ×  N 0, Ip - N 0, Ip
                      cxz         cxz

=     0(1 - 0) W p() - W p(1) ,             since  V  -1/2             ×  V  1/2  =  Ip.
                                                      cxz                    cxz

which implies that

    1          Jn , 0, nivz(0)            - Jn 1, 0, nivz(0)                              0(1 - 0) W p() - W p(1)
0(1 - 0)                                                                                  0(1 - 0)

Thus, for some 0 <  < 1 and 0  (0, 1) it holds that

                                  SQnivz(; 0)  sup                     BBp()                                   (7.31)
                                                                [0,1]

Overall, it seems that the fluctuation type statistics are non-pivotal, at the first glance,
for all estimators and across the two persistence classes, due to the dependence of their
limiting distributions on the nuisance coefficient of persistence; appearing in the esti-
mation of the covariance matrix V cxz of the Gaussian variant that the corresponding
partial sum processes converge to. However, the IVZ based statistic for both types of
persistence induce an approximation which weakly converges into a Brownian bridge
type limit. In practise, when we utilize the IVZ estimator (see also Theorem 3.2 and
Proposition 3.2 in Lee (2016)) then the limiting distribution of the moment matrix be-
tween the covariates and the residuals of the model simplifies, and thus the overall limit
is nuisance-parameter free. Furthermore, a similar limit for the IVX based test hold in
the case of mildly integrated regressors. A nonstandard limit distribution appears in the
case of high persistence (e.g., LUR) for both the OLS and IVX based test statistics.

                                                      54
Katsouris C. (2021)              Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.7 Proof of Proposition 2

We need to prove the following limit result

                            S  W  ols  ; 0        sup                              2                (7.32)
                                  n
                                                  [0,1]      BBp+1()
                                                              (1 - )

where the exponent rate that captures the degree of persistence for the original regressors
can be x = 1 or x  (0, 1). In particular to prove the Brownian Bridge limit, we need
to derive the limiting distribution of the term Jnx , 0, nols(0) - Jnx 1, 0, nols(0) .

Using Definition 3, for the case of mildly integrated regressors, x  (0, 1), it holds that

Jnoxls , 0, nols(0)               :=    XX        -1/2 n                 yt - Xt-1nols(0)

                                                            X t-1 

                                                  t=1

                                   0(1 - 0) × W p+1() - W p+1(1) .                                  (7.33)

where W p+1(.) is a p-vector of independent Wiener processes and the convergence holds
because xt-1 yt-xt-10(0) is a sequence of martingale differences under the null.
The particular limit is derived in the proof of Proposition 1.

Part (i)

Proof. Let Xt-1 = 1, xt-1  the design matrix and (0) = (0), (0)  to be the
parameter vector. Then, to derive the asymptotic distribution of the OLS-Wald test we

employ the following functional

                  ols                   n

S^nolxs  ,  0,  n      (0)     := Dn-1       Xt-1 ut(0) , for some 0 <  < 1,                        (7.34)

                                        t=1

where ut(0) =   yt   -   X       onls(0)     with 0  (0, 1). Then, the OLS based estimator
                            t-1

for the subsample 1  t  n denoted with 1ols(; 0) is given by

                                  n                                  -1        n                
                            1     t=1                                    1     t=1    X t-1 yt 
         1ols(;      0)  =             fut(),t-1  (0)X  t-1  X                                      (7.35)
                              k                                 t-1        k

Therefore, it holds that

S^nolxs , 0, 1ols(; 0)                            n                                   1ols(;

                                         D-n 1          X t-1   1    yt  =  X                 0  )
                                                                               t-1

                                                  t=1

                                          (p  +  1)Dn-1  max    X t-1       P 0.                    (7.36)

                                                         1in

which implies that S^nolxs , 0, o1ls(; 0) = oP(1).

                                                  55
Katsouris C. (2021)                     Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Moreover, for the estimator of the first subsample we obtain the following expression

          1ols(; 0) - 0(0)              p                             -1

    Dn                                        fut () (0)Vxx               × Snolxs , 0, 0(0) + oP(1)

                                                  1      1  Vx-x1  ×  N   0, 0(1 - 0)          1   0
                                              fut()(0)                                         0  V xx

                                        = 11                  0(1 - 0)Vx-x1 ×           1     0   1/2
                                           fut()(0)                                     0
                                                                                           V xx       × N 0, 
                                        = 11
                                           fut()(0)           0(1 - 0) × V-xx1/2 × W p+1().                    (7.37)

                                                                                              
                                                                                            0 . Similarly,
since it holds that Sxols , 0, (0)                    N     0,     0(1    -  0)    1       V xx
                                                                                    0

Dn      2ols(; 0) - 0(0)             p                                       -1

                                        fut()(0)(1 - )Vxx × Snolxs , 0, 0(0) + oP(1)

                                            1     1  1        0(1 - 0) × Vx-x1/2 × W p+1(1) - W p+1() .
                                        fut()(0)     -                                                              (7.38)

Therefore, combining (7.37) and (7.38) we obtain the following expression

Dn      nols (; 0)               -      1     (1  1  )      0(1 - 0) × V-xx1/2 × W p+1() - W p+1(1) .
                                    fut()(0)      -

Moreover, the convergence of the covariance matrix follows as below

                 plim V  nols(;  0)     0(1   -   0)  ×     plim V    o1lns(;  0)  +  plim V  o2lns(;  0)      (7.39)

                 n                                          n                         n

Therefore, it holds that

plim V  1olns(;  0)                                                                                            (7.40)

n                                                                                     

                                            -1                  n                                                           -1

    =   plim L~ nx       0, nols(0)           nplimD-n 1              X   t-1X          D-n 1     plim L~ nx  0, nols(0)
                                                                                 t-1
        n                                                                                         n
                                                                t=1
                                                                      -1                                      
                         n                                                                                             
                                                                                             n

    =   nplimDn-1                fut(),t-1  (0)X  t-1X          Dn-1           nplimD-n 1  t=1 Xt-1Xt-1 Dn-1
                                                         t-1
                            t=1
                                                                      -1
                         n                                    

    ×   nplimDn-1                fut(),t-1  (0)X  t-1X          Dn-1  
                                                         t-1
                        t=1

                                 -1                                       -1

     fut()(0)Vxx                     × Vxx × fut()(0)Vxx

    =        1       1   V-xx1                                                                                 (7.41)
        fut () (0)2  

                                                              56
Katsouris C. (2021)                   Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Similarly, we obtain that

                              plimV        ols  (;   0)          1           1  1   Vx-x1                          (7.42)
                                           2n                fut()(0)2          -
                              n

Thus,

plimV       nols(; 0)        0(1 - 0) V-1            1   +   1  1         =      1          0(1     -  0)   V-xx1  (7.43)
                             fut()(0)2 xx                       -            fut()(0)2       (1     -  )
n

which implies that

                                                                -1
Wnols (; 0) := Dn onls(; 0) V n(; 0)                                  onls(; 0)

                       1 0(1 - 0)               W p+1() - W p+1(1)                       Vx-x1/2  ×         fut()(0)2   (1  -  )   Vxx
                   fut()(0)2 [(1 - )]2                                                                                 0(1  -  0)

                      × V-xx1/2 W p+1() - W p+1(1)

                       1      W p+1() - W p+1(1)                      W p+1() - W p+1(1)                 .         (7.44)
                   (1 - )

Hence, we have that

        SW  ols  (;  0)  :=   sup  Dn        onls(; 0)                                    -1        onls(; 0)
            n
                                                                   ×  V n(; 0) ×

                             

                          sup         W p+1() - W p+1(1)  W p+1() - W p+1(1)
                                                              (1 - )
                              

                                      BBp+1()        2
                                       (1 - )
                          sup                            , for x  (0, 1),                                          (7.45)

                             

where BBp+1() is a Brownian Bridge process, which holds for the case of mildly in-
tegrated regressors, that is, x  (0, 1) and holds even under the presence of model
intercept. Next, we provide of some auxiliary derivations employed for Part (i).

Proof.

                      n                    -1           n              
                      t=1                               t=1
1ols(;  0)  =    1         X  t-1  X            1            X t-1 yt
                                      t-1         

                   1  n                                      -1       n                                                   
                      t=1                                             t=1                                                 
            =              fut(),t-1  (0)X      t-1  X            1             X t-1    X       0  (0)  +         ut(0)
                                                        t-1                                 t-1

                                   n                                      -1           n                           
                                   t=1                                                 t=1
            =    0(0)    +  1           fut  (),t-1(0)X      t-1  X             1           X t-1        ut(0)      + oP(1).
                                                                     t-1          

                                                             57
Katsouris C. (2021)              Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Thus,

                                                                  -1              n                     

                                                n
Dn 1ols(; 0) - 0(0) = Dn-1 
                                                   X  t-1X       D-n 1  Dn-1           Xt-1 ut(0)  + oP(1).

                                                            t-1

                                            t=1                                   t=1

which implies that

        Dn 1ols(; 0) - 0(0)  Vxx -1 × N 0, 0(1 - 0)Vxx

                                                 1    0(1 - 0)Vx-x1 × V1x/x2 × W p+1()
                                                      0(1 - 0) × V-xx1/2 × W p+1().
                                                 1
                                            =                                                   (7.46)

Recall that

                                                             n

        Snolxs , 0, nols(0) := Dn-1 Xt-1 ut(0) , for (, 0)  (0, 1),

                                                              t=1

                                                                                                            

where ut(0) = yt-Xt-1n(0) . Thus, Snolxs , 0, onls(0)                     N     0,  0(1  -  0)  1      0 .
                                                                                                 0    V xx
                                 
                             0 , which implies that
Denote  with   Vxx  :=  1   V xx
                         0

Snolxs , 0, onls(0)  N 0, 0(1 - 0)Vxx  0(1 - 0) × Vx-x1/2 × W p+1().

Similarly, we can prove that

Dn      o2ls(; 0) - 0(0)             1           0(1 - 0) × Vx-x1/2 × W p+1(1) - W p+1() .
                                   1-

Practically, the above results can be deduced from Assumption 2 (b) such that

               sup      1   n                         xt-1 xt -1  = oP(1), as n  .              (7.47)
                      n1+x
              r[0,]             xt-1xt-1 - rE

                            t=1

where E xt-1xt-1          V xx,  which  implies     that    1     n             p  V xx.  Similarly,
                                                          n1+x
                                                                      xt-1xt-1

                                                                  t=1

         sup      1           n             -  rE     xt-1xt-1    = oP(1), as n  .              (7.48)
                n1+x
        r(,1]                     xt-1xt-1

                        t=n+1

which  implies  that    1         n                   p  (1 - )V xx.
                      n1+x
                                      xt-1 xt -1

                            t=n+1

                                                      58
Katsouris C. (2021)              Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Part (ii)

Next, we investigate the asymptotic behaviour of the OLS-Wald test statistic in the case
of local unit root regressors (i.e., high persistent). To minimize complexity of notation
for the derivations of this proof we denote with

                              1                                                                          

Sxx :=          1          1  0   J c(r)          and Sxx() :=                               0     (Jrc)(Jrc)( r)  (7.49)
                                 c(r)J c(r)
              1               J                                                              J

           0    J c(r)  0                                               0  J c(r)       0       c

Moreover, it holds that D-n 1           n                      D-n 1
                                                          t-1
                                             X    t-1  X                 Sxx and

                                   t=1

                                                                                     
        n
Dn-1            X t-1X t-1       D-n 1                              0   (Jrc)(Jrc)( r)  ,  when    x  =  1.        (7.50)
      
                                                                    Jc
           t=1                                         J c(r)

                                                  0            0

Proof. Therefore, for LUR regressors, x = 1, we have that

                                                                        -1              n                          

                                               n
Dn 1ols(; 0) - 0(0) = Dn-1 
                                                  Xt-1Xt-1 D-n 1 Dn-1                           Xt-1 ut(0)  + oP(1)

                                             t=1                                           t=1

which implies that

                                                           B ()         

Dn  1ols(; 0) - 0(0)              Sx-x1() ×                                                                        (7.51)
                                                       0 J c(r)dB

                                                                               B(1) - B()                          

Dn  2ols(; 0) - 0(0)               Sxx(1) - Sxx()              -1 ×        1                                       
                                                                           0 J c(r)dB - 0 J c(r)dB

                                                                                                                   (7.52)

                                                          59
Katsouris C. (2021)                    Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Therefore, combining (7.51) and (7.52) we obtain the following expression

Dn nols (; 0)

                                                                                                                             

                 Sxx(1) - Sxx()                  -1 × B     (1)     -   B() -          S-xx1() × B    ()                     
                                                 J c(r)dB   -           J c(r)dB        - S-xx1() ×
                 Sxx() -1 ×                   1                                                          
                                                                    0                                  0
      Sxx(1)  -                            0                                                                 J  c(r)dB

                                                B (1)  -    B ()                                       B ()             
                                              c(r)dB   -
     Sxx(1) - Sxx()       -1 ×          1                                           -   Sx-x1()  ×                      
                                       0                       0 J c(r)dB                             0 J c(r)dB
                                           J

                                                                                                                     (7.53)

Then, the OLS-Wald test for testing the null hypothesis of no parameter instability
in the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model at an unknown break-point
location  = n is given by the following expression

                                                                                      -1
     Wnols (; 0) := 0(1 - 0)Dn onls(; 0) V n(; 0)                                           nols(; 0)
                                                                                                                     (7.54)

Furthermore, we study the limiting variance of the OLS-Wald test under the null hy-
pothesis. In particular, the convergence of the covariance matrix follows as below

plim  V o1lns(; 0)

n                                                                                           

                                                 -1                     n                                                               -1

           plim Lnx       0, onls(0)             nplim      D-n 1             X  t-1X         D-n 1   plim Lnx       0, onls(0)
                                                                                       t-1
           n                                                             t=1                          n

                            n                                                 -1                                             
                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                       n

      =  nplim   D    -1          fut  (),t-1    (0)X  t-1X           Dn-1        ×   nplim   Dn-1           X  t-1  X         D  -1
                      n                                        t-1                                                      t-1
                             t=1                                                                        t=1                       n

                          n                                                   -1
         
                 D-n 1                                                Dn-1
      ×  nplim                    fut  (),t-1    (0)X  t-1  X  t-1

                            t=1

                                  -1                                              -1

       fut()(0)Sxx() × Sxx() × fut()(0)Sxx()

      =  fut   1      Sx-x1().                                                                                       (7.55)
              ()(0)2

and

                      plim       V 2olns(; 0)              1            Sxx(1) - Sxx()        -1                     (7.56)
                                                       fut()(0)2
                      n                                                                         .

                                                               60
Katsouris C. (2021)          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Therefore,

plim            V onls(; 0)        1           Sx-x1() +                                   -1  .        (7.57)
                               fut()(0)2
n                                                          Sxx(1) - Sxx()

                                                   nols(;      -1

We can also simplify further the term  plim    V           0)      = fut()(0)2 Sxx()-Sxx()S-xx1(1)Sxx() .

                                       n

Denote with

                                                    B (1)  -   B ()                                           B ()       
                                                  c(r)dB   -
o0ls ; 0    :=  Sxx(1) - Sxx()  -1 ×       1                                  -                Sx-x1()  ×                
                                          0                                                                  0 J c(r)dB
                                               J                0 J c(r)dB

Then, it follows that

Wnols (; 0) := Dn nols(; 0)               ols          -1  nols(; 0)
                                          n
                                       V       (;  0)

              o0ls ; 0  0-1 ; 0 o0ls ; 0

                                          

              fut()(0)2 o0ls ; 0            Sxx() - Sxx()Sx-x1(1)Sxx() o0ls ; 0 .

Therefore, the asymptotic distribution of the sup OLS-Wald test statistic is nonpivotal
and nonstandard and has the above analytical expression. Furthermore, we verify that
a trivial aspect such as the inclusion of a model intercept can complicate the asymptotic
theory of the structural break test since the model intercept and the slopes are known
to have different rates of convergence.

                                                  61
Katsouris C. (2021)                Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.8 Proof of Theorem 1

                   S  W  ivx  ; 0        sup         0 ; 0  0 ; 0              -10 ; 0                            (7.58)
                         n
                                           

where  := [, 1 - ] with 0 <  < 1/2 and

                   0 ; 0 := W p() - c()W p(1)                                                                     (7.59)
                   0 ; 0 :=  Ip - c() Ip - c()  + (1 - )c()c()                                                    (7.60)

such that

                                                                    1                 -1
                   
                      xx +              J  µc (r)dJ        xx +        J  cµ(r)dJ            , for x = 1
                                                     c                             c
                                   0                             0
        c() = Ip
                                                                                             , for x  (0, 1)

where W p(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian motion, J c() =                               e(-s)Cp dB(s)     is  an
                                                                                             0

Ornstein-Uhkenbeck process and we denote with J cµ() = Jc() -                             1  J c(s)ds  and  W  µ  ()  =
                                                                                          0                    p

W p() -      1  W (s)ds  the  demeaned     processes       of  J c()   and  W  p()    respectively.
             0

Proof. We consider the limiting distribution of the sup IVX-Wald test for the nonsta-

tionary quantile predictive regression model. An analytic expression for the limiting
                                                           ivx
variance   of   the IVX-Wald       test    statistic,   V  n    ; 0       := Q~ 1 ; 0        + Q~ 2 ; 0 , can be

obtained by formulating the test statistic with respect to the linear restrictions matrix,

under the null hypothesis of no structural break for a fixed quantile 0  (0, 1). Fur-
thermore, by applying weakly convergence arguments to the particular expression (with

zero off-diagonal terms) holds due to the orthogonality property of the regressors of the

two regimes with respect to the unknown break-location  = n, 0 <  < 1.

   ivx  ; 0    :=  Ip - Ip    (Z 1 X 1 )-1              0        Z1 Z1 0              (X1 Z1)-1             0              Ip
                                                                    0 Z2Z2                                                -I p
Vn                                    0          (Z2X 2)-1                                      0      (X 2 Z 2 )-1

                Q~ 1 ; 0 + Q~ 2 ; 0                                                                               (7.61)

where

                                   Q~ 1 ; 0 := Z~ 1 X1 -1 Z~ 1Z~ 1 X1 Z~ 1 -1                                     (7.62)
                                                                                                                  (7.63)
                                   Q~ 2 ; 0 := Z~ 2 X2 -1 Z~ 2 Z~ 2 X2 Z~ 2 -1                                    (7.64)

                      D~ nV   ivx  ; 0     D~ n  = D~ n    Q~ 1 ; 0    + Q~ 2 ; 0         D~ n
                              n

                                                           62
Katsouris C. (2021)                          Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Therefore, by employing the corresponding normalized versions it holds that

                                                 -1                                                                    -1

                    n                                      n                                n
                       Xt-1,nZ~ t-1,n                                         t-1,n
Q~ 1 ; 0    :=                                                 Z~  t-1,n  Z~                      Z~  t-1,n  X         
                                                                                                                t-1,n

                 t=1                                      t=1                                t=1

                                                        -1         n                                                  n                          -1

                             n
            = D~ n-1            xt-1z~t-1D~ n-1 D~ n-1                        z~t-1z~t-1D~ n-1 D~ -n 1                    z~t-1xt-1D~ n-1

                       t=1                   -1                    t=1                                              t=1

                                                    n                                                 -1

                    n                                                        n

             D~ n             xt-1z~                         z~t-1z~t-1                 z~t-1xt-1 D~ n                                         (7.65)
                                      t-1

                      t=1                               t=1                   t=1

Moreover, we denote the weakly convergence of the following moment matrices as below

   D~ -n 1  n    xt-1z~t-1D~ n-1  cxz()                                   D~ n-1 n xt-1z~t-1D~ n-1  cxz(1)

                                                             and                   t=1                                              (7.66)
                                                                                                                                    (7.67)
            t=1

By applying weak convergence arguments we obtain that

                 D~ n × Q~ 1 ; 0                 × D~ n  cxz()-1 V cxz cxz() -1

                                                                   cxz ()V              -1   cxz  ()     -1
                                                                                        cxz

Similarly, it holds that

                                                        -1  n                                                                                  -1

Q~ 2 ; 0                   n    X     t-1,n  Z~                                                                    n  Z~  t-1,n  X             
                                                 t-1,n                                                                              t-1,n
            :=                                                                Z~ t-1,nZ~ t-1,n 

                 t=n+1                                         t=n+1                                     t=n+1
                                                             -1                                                                                        -1
                                                                                     n
                                   n  xt-1z~t-1D~ n-1 D~ -n 1                                                                               n
            = D~ -n 1                                                                        z~t-1z~t-1D~ -n 1 D~ -n 1                         z~t-1xt-1D~ n-1

                       t=n+1                                                  t=n+1                                               t=n+1
                                                 -1  n                                    
                                                                                                      n                  -1
                          n                                                                                  z~t-1xt-1 D~ n
             D~ n 
                                      xt-1z~t-1                           z~t-1z~            
                                                                                     t-1

                    t=n+1                                    t=n+1                             t=n+1

Thus, it follows that

   D~ n × Q~ 2 ; 0 × D~ n  cxz(1) - cxz() -1 (1 - )V cxz cxz(1) - cxz()  -1

                                                                                                                            -1

                                       (1 - )           cxz(1) - cxz()               V  -1   cxz(1) - cxz()                                    (7.68)
                                                                                        cxz

Therefore, for the limiting variance of the sup IVX-Wald test we have that

D~ nV  ivx  ; 0  D~ n
       n

= D~ n Q~ 1 ; 0 + Q~ 2 ; 0 D~ n

=  cxz()-1V cxzc xz()-1 + (1 - )                               cxz(1) - cxz()                     -1         c xz(1) - c xz()                  -1

                                                                                                    V cxz

                                                                   63
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Furthermore, it holds that

D~ n i1vx(; 0) - 0(0)  c-x1z() × N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz

                                  0(1  -                            0)  ×  c-x1z ()   ×  V  1/2  ×  W  p().                               (7.69)
                                                                                            cxz

D~ n i2vx(; 0) - 0()                                                -1

                                  cxz(1) - cxz() × N 0, 0(1 - 0)(1 - )V cxz

                                                                                                       -1

                                 0(1 - 0) × cxz(1) - cxz()                                                   ×  V  1/2  ×  W p(1) - W p() .
                                                                                                                   cxz

                                                                                                                                          (7.70)

which implies that

   D~ n    i2vx(; 0) - 1ivx(; 0)       -                                 0(1  -  0)V        1/2  AW p() - BW p(1)                         (7.71)
                                                                                            cxz

where                                             -1                                                                                  -1  (7.72)

      A=        cxz(1) - cxz() + c-x1z()                                      and B = cxz(1) - cxz()

Therefore, putting all the above together the expression can be simplified as below

S  W  ivx  ; 0   0(1 - 0)
      n

                                                                  

× W p() - cxz()c-x1z(1)W p(1)

×  Ip - cxz()-cx1z(1) Ip - cxz()c-x1z(1)  + (1 - ) cxz()c-x1z(1)                                                           cxz()-cx1z(1)  -1

× W p() - cxz()c-x1z(1)W p(1) .

Denote with

                                                                                                       1                 -1
                                     xx +
c() := cxz()-cx1z(1) = Ip                                                J  µc (r)dJ     xx +             J  cµ(r)dJ         , for x = 1
                                                                                      c                               c
                                                                    0                               0

                                                                                                                             , for 0 < x < 1.

Thus, in summary, the sup IVX-Wald statistic can be formulated as below

                S  W  ivx  ; 0   sup   0 ; 0  0 ; 0                                         -10 ; 0
                      n
                                  

                   0 ; 0 := W p() - c()W p(1)
                   0 ; 0 :=  Ip - c() Ip - c()  + (1 - )c()c()

                                                                            64
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Proof of Expression (7.69):

Proof. We consider the dequantiled model with p regressors which can be either mildly
integrated or high persistent. Then, by employing the embedded normalization matrices
we can derive analytic expressions for the IVX estimators of the two subsamples.

                      n                   -1             n                          
                      t=1                                t=1
i1vx(;  0)   =   1         Z~   t-1,nX             1               Z~ t-1,nyt()
                                                     
                                        t-1,n

                      n                   -1             n                                                        
                      t=1                                t=1                                                      
             =   1         Z~   t-1,nX             1               Z~ t-1,n    X t-1,n0(0)       +         ut(0)
                                                     
                                        t-1,n

             =   0(0)    +        n                         -1             n    Z~ t-1,n      ut(0)  
                                  t=1                                      t=1
                            1           Z~ t-1,nX t-1,n               1                               + oP(1)
                                                                        

Therefore, it holds that

                                                                         -1           n                    

                                            n
D~ n i1vx(; 0) - 0() = D~ n
                                               Z~  t-1,nX                    D~ n          Z~ t-1,n ut(0)  + oP(1)

                                                             t-1,n

                                        t=1                                           t=1

Notice that it holds that

                                -1                                                -1
                                                                   D~ n-1xt-1 
   n                                       n  D~ n-1z~t-1

             Z~  t-1,nX             =
                         t-1,n

        t=1                             t=1
                                                                                -1

                                                      n
                                    = D~ -n 1  z~t-1xt-1 D~ n-1

                                                   t=1

                                                                   n                  -1
                                        1
                                    =                        Ip          z~t-1xt-1               c-x1z ()         (7.73)
                                          n1+(x z )
                                                                   t=1

For the second term of the expression for D~ n 1ivx(; 0) - 0() it holds that

                 n                                       n                               

              Z~ t-1,n ut(0)  = D~ -n 1                            z~t-1 ut(0) 

                 t=1                                     t=1                                         

                                                        1+(x       z  )        n
                                                                2
                                          =    n  -                        Ip       z~t-1 ut(0) 

                                                                               t=1

                                           N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz                                                     (7.74)

which implies that

D~ n i1vx(; 0) - 0(0)  -cx1z() × N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz

                                              0(1  -     0)        ×     c-x1z ()  ×  V  1/2  ×  W  p().   (7.75)
                                                                                         cxz

                                                         65
Katsouris C. (2021)            Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

where cxz() corresponds to the weakly convergence argument of the partial sum pro-
cess expression such that

                                                     
                        -C
                                 -1     xx +      0     J  c(r)dJ             if x = 1,
                                 z                                   c        if x  (z, 1),
                                                                              if x  (0, z).
            cxz()  -VCxxz-1 xx + CpV xx                                                                 (7.76)

Following similar arguments expression (7.70) follows, and the rest of the arguments for
the proof of Theorem 1.

Known break-point:

Proof. For a known-break point the asymptotic term that corresponds to the case of
high persistence, x = 1, can simplify further, when  is fixed say   0, such that

              cxz (0 )         -C  -1   0xx +            0  J  c  (r)dJ    
                                   z                    0                  c

                            =  -0C      -1   xx +        1  J  c(r)dJ          0cxz(1).                 (7.77)
                                        z               0               c

Thus, further generalizations occur based on the formulation of Theorem 1, which cover
both the case of mildly integrated and persistent regressors, demonstrating the conver-
gence to a nuisance-free limiting distribution. In particular,

   Q~ 1 0; 0  0cxz -1 × 0V cxz × 0cxz -1

                     1                                                              -1
                     0
              =         c-x1z V  cxz  (cxz )-1             0 cxz V      -1    c xz                      (7.78)
                                                                        cxz                             (7.79)

   Q~ 2 0; 0  (1 - 0)cxz -1 × (1 - 0)V cxz × (1 - 0)cxz -1

                         1                                                                       -1
                        -
              =      1      0  c-x1z V  cxz  (c xz)-1            (1  -  0 )cxz V       -1   cxz
                                                                                       cxz

Therefore, it follows that

                                                  -1                                             
                                                                                              -1
       ivx                              -1   cxz     +                              -1   cxz
            0; 0            0 cxz V     cxz                 (1    -  0 )cxz V       cxz                 (7.80)
   Vn

and by denoting with Scxz :=     cxz V       -1   c xz  we obtain
                                             cxz

V  ivx  0; 0            0Scxz    -1         (1 - 0)Scxz      -1            1  +         1     × Sc-x1z  (7.81)
   n                                                                       0           - 0
                                    +                                               1

                                                  66
Katsouris C. (2021)                Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Then, the expression for the IVX-Wald test statistic given by                                                   (7.82)
                    Wnivx 0; 0  0 0; 0  0 0; 0 -10 0; 0

can be simplified further by combining the asymptotic convergence results above

nivx 0; 0            0 0; 0        :=           1    0)   0(1       -    0)c-x1z  ×    V  1/2  ×  W p(0) - W p(1) .
                     0 0; 0                0(1 -                                          cxz

    ivx  0; 0                      :=           1    0)   ×  S-cx1z .
                                           0(1 -
Vn

Therefore, we obtain

Wnivx 0; 0 

0(1 - 0)            W p(0) - W p(1)               V  1/2  -cx1z        Scxz -cx1z V  1/2  W p(0) - W p(1)
0(1 - 0)                                             cxz                             cxz

                                                                                                                (7.83)

Consider the formulation for the covariance matrix such that

         V  1/2     -cx1z    Scxz c-x1z V  1/2    V  1/2     -cx1z       cxz V    -1   cxz     c-x1z V  1/2  =  Ip.
            cxz                            cxz       cxz                          cxz                   cxz

In summary, we prove that the asymptotic distribution of the IVX-Wald test for a known
break-point 0 is nuisance-parameter free as below

     1      0)   ×  Wnivx    0; 0          W p(0) - W p(1)  W p(0) - W p(1)                              p2. (7.84)
0(1 -                                                         0(1 - 0)

which holds regardless of the degree of persistence driving the regressors of the model
(at least with respect to high persistence or mildly integrated regressors).

                                                          67
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.1.9 Proof of Corollary 5

Proof.

                      n                        -1             n                     
                      t=1                                     t=1
i1vz (;    0)  =  1        Z~  t-1,n  Z~              1            Z~ t-1,nyt()
                                                        
                                          t-1,n

                      n                        -1             n                                                   
                      t=1                                     t=1                                                 
               =  1        Z~  t-1,n  Z~              1            Z~ t-1,n   Z~ t-1,n0(0) +              ut(0)
                                                        
                                          t-1,n

                                  n                           -1           n                              
                                  t=1                                      t=1
               =  0(0)   +  1             Z~  t-1,n  Z~              1           Z~ t-1,n    ut(0)         + oP(1)
                                                                       
                                                         t-1,n

Therefore, it holds that

                                                                     -1                                   

                                         n                                    n
D~ n i1vz(; 0) - 0() =                                        
                                               Z~  t-1,n  Z~  t-1,n                Z~ t-1,n ut(0)  + oP(1)

                                          t=1                                 t=1

which implies that

          D~ n i1vz(; 0) - 0(0)  V cxz -1 × N 0, 0(1 - 0)V cxz

                                                   1      0(1    -   0)    ×  V  -1   ×  V   1/2  ×  W    p()
                                                                                 cxz         cxz

                                               =   1      0(1    -   0)    ×  V  -1/2  ×  W  p().                 (7.85)
                                                                                 cxz

Similarly, it can be proved that

D~ n i2vz(; 0) - 0()  (1 - )V cxz -1 × N 0, 0(1 - 0)(1 - )V cxz

                                        1          0(1    -   0)     ×  V  -1/2  ×    W p() - W p(1) .            (7.86)
                                      1-                                   cxz

Furthermore, it holds that

~ nivz ; 0 := D~ n 2ivz(; 0) - 1ivz(; 0)

                      -  (1    1  )       0(1      -  0)      ×  V   -1/2  ×  W p() - W p(1) .                    (7.87)
                               -                                     cxz

Moreover,

D~ nQ~ 1 ; 0 D~ n  cxz()-1 V cxz                     cxz ()          -1       V       cxz V  -1   V       -1   =  1  -1
                                                                                             cxz     cxz          V  cxz

D~ nQ~ 2  ; 0  D~ n   1  1     V  -1
                         -        cxz

                                                          68
Katsouris C. (2021)        Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Therefore, the limiting variance for the IVZ estimator is given by

               D~ nV  ivz  ; 0  D~ n = D~ n       Q~ 1  ; 0      + Q~ 2 ; 0  D~ n
                      n

                                             1   +  1   1    V   -1                (7.88)
                                                        -        cxz

and

                      D~ nV  ivz    ; 0    D~ n   -1                               (7.89)
                             n
                                                      (1 - )V cxz

Then, the limiting distribution of the IVZ-Wald test is given by

D~ n 2ivz(; 0) - 1ivz(; 0)            D~ nV  ivz           D~ n  -1   D~ n  i2vz(; 0) - 1ivz(; 0)
                                             n
                                                  ; 0

     0(1 - 0)                         
     (1 - ) 2
               W p() - W p(1)           V  -1/2  ×  (1  -    )V  cxz  ×  V  -1/2  W p() - W p(1)
                                           cxz                              cxz

  0(1  -  0)                        
   (1  -  )
              W p() - W p(1)          W p() - W p(1)                               (7.90)

Specifically, the IVZ-based test statistic shows an equivalent asymptotic behaviour with
the corresponding IVX-based test when testing for structural breaks in nonstationary
quantile predictive regressions.

Remark 11. The formulation of the IVZ-Wald statistic shows the equivalence of an
OLS-Wald based test to the IVZ-Wald statistic, since the IVZ estimation is equivalent to
when original regressors are converted into stationary time series and then constructing
an OLS based test; in which case we avoid any possible computational complexity of the
second stage regression which requires the estimation of long-run covariance matrices to
filter out potential long-run bias effects in the limiting variance of the test.

                                                  69
Katsouris C. (2021)               Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

7.2 Asymptotic results on stochastic integrals

In this section we summarize main invariance principles employed for deriving some of
the theoretical results of the paper. Extensive details on these results can be found in
the framework proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009).

                                                   

Lemma 4. Let Vxx := erCpxxerCpdr where xx is the long-run covariance of the
                                                 0

error term vt. Then, under the null hypothesis of no structural break in the predictive
regression model the following large sample theory holds:

(i) the sample covariance weakly convergence to the following limit (see Corollary 4)

                                  1    0)  D~ -n 1  n     z~ t-1    ut(0)   U p ()                   (7.91)
                              0(1 -                 t=1

      where U p (.) is a Brownian motion with variance V cxz as defined below

                                         
                           Vzz = 0 erCz xxerCz dr
                                                                    , when 0 < z < x < 1,
                     V cxz  Vxx =                                   , when 0 < x < z < 1.            (7.92)

                                           erCp xxerCp dr                                            (7.93)

                                       0

(ii) the sample covariance weakly convergence to the following limit

                                    n                  

                           D~ -n 1  xt-1z~t-1 D~ n-1   cxz()

                                    t=1

where the exact analytic form of  () depends on which of the two exponents rates of
persistence stochastically dominates such as

                                              
                         -C
                              -1  xx +              J  µ  (r)dJ     , when x = 1
                              z                        c         c  , when 0 < z < x < 1
                                           0                        , when 0 < x < z < 1

             cxz ()  :=  - Cz-e1rCpxxxx+erCCppdVr   xx

                           0                              V   xx

where Bp(.) is a p-dimensional standard Brownian motion, J c() =                          e(-s)C  p  dB  (s)
                                                                                    0

is an Ornstein-Uhkenbeck process and we denote with J µc () = J c() -                     1  J c(s)ds  and
                                                                                          0

B  µ  ()  =  B()  -  1   B(s)ds   the  demeaned        processes    of  J c()  and  Bp()  respectively.
   p                 0

(iii) The weakly joint convergence result applies and the asymptotic terms given by
 expressions in (i) and (ii) are stochastically independent.

                                                          70
Katsouris C. (2021)      Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Proof. We present the main conjectures for deriving the invariance principles presented
by Lemma 4 (see, Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and Kostakis et al. (2015) for details)

                                  n            0                                           (7.94)

                 n-(1+z) z~t-1z~t-1 P V zz :=       erCz xxerCz dr

                         t=1

Moreover, we have the weakly convergence result from Phillips and Magdalinos (2009):

                     n-  1+z   n
                            2
                                    (z~t-1  vt)  N 0, V zz  vv                             (7.95)

                               t=1

Expression (7.95) shows weakly convergence into a mixed Gaussian limit distribution. In

particular, this implies that the limit distribution of n-(1+z)/2  n    (z~t-1    vt)  is  Gaus-
                                                                   t=1

sian with mean zero and covariance matrix equal to the probability limit of n-(1+z)/2      n       (z~t-1    vt),
                                                                                           t=1

which is equal to V zz  vv, where V zz is defined in (7.94). Specifically, the above

Mixed Gaussianity convergence argument, is a powerful property of the IVX filtration

and ensures the robustness of the instrumental variable based procedure for abstract per-

sistence. The dependence of the covariance matrix on the degree of persistence of the

IVX instrument, induces exactly the Mixed Gaussianity. Similarly, the limit distribution

below follows from Lemma 3.3 of PM.

            n                                                           

n-(1+z )/2       xt-1  vt  N 0, V xx  vv , where V xx :=           0      erCp xxerCp dr

            t=1

References

Andersen, T. G. and Varneskov, R. T. (2021). Consistent inference for predictive regressions
   in persistent economic systems. Journal of Econometrics, 224(1):215­244.

Andrews, D. W. (1993). Tests for parameter instability and structural change with unknown
   change point. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 821­856.

Andrews, D. W. and Ploberger, W. (1994). Optimal tests when a nuisance parameter is present
   only under the alternative. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1383­
   1414.

Atanasov, V., Møller, S. V., and Priestley, R. (2020). Consumption fluctuations and expected
   returns. The Journal of Finance, 75(3):1677­1713.

Aue, A., Cheung, R. C., Lee, T. C., and Zhong, M. (2017). Piecewise quantile autoregressive
   modeling for nonstationary time series. Bernoulli, 23(1):1­22.

Bai, J. (1996). Testing for parameter constancy in linear regressions: an empirical distribution
   function approach. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 597­622.

Banerjee, A., Dolado, J. J., Galbraith, J. W., Hendry, D., et al. (1993). Co-integration, error
   correction, and the econometric analysis of non-stationary data. OUP Catalogue.

                                                        71
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Bickel, P. J. (1975). One-step huber estimates in the linear model. Journal of the American
   Statistical Association, 70(350):428­434.

Billingsley, P. (1968). Convergence of probability measures. John Wiley & Sons.
Cai, Z. and Wang, Y. (2014). Testing predictive regression models with nonstationary regres-

   sors. Journal of Econometrics, 178:4­14.
Cai, Z., Wang, Y., and Wang, Y. (2015). Testing instability in a predictive regression model

   with nonstationary regressors. Econometric Theory, 31(5):953.
Campbell, J. Y. and Yogo, M. (2006). Efficient tests of stock return predictability. Journal of

   financial economics, 81(1):27­60.
Canarella, G., Miller, S., and Pollard, S. (2012). Unit roots and structural change: an appli-

   cation to us house price indices. Urban Studies, 49(4):757­776.
Caner, M. and Hansen, B. E. (2001). Threshold autoregression with a unit root. Econometrica,

   69(6):1555­1596.
Chernozhukov, V. (2005). Extremal quantile regression. The Annals of Statistics, 33(2):806­

   839.
Cho, J. S., Kim, T.-h., and Shin, Y. (2015). Quantile cointegration in the autoregressive

   distributed-lag modeling framework. Journal of econometrics, 188(1):281­300.
Chow, G. C. (1960). Tests of equality between sets of coefficients in two linear regressions.

   Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 591­605.
Chu, C.-S. J., Stinchcombe, M., and White, H. (1996). Monitoring structural change. Econo-

   metrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1045­1065.
Davidson, J. (2000). Econometric theory. Wiley-Blackwell.
Davies, R. B. (1977). Hypothesis testing when a nuisance parameter is present only under the

   alternative. Biometrika, 64(2):247­254.
De Haan, L. and Ferreira, A. (2006). Extreme value theory: an introduction, volume 21.

   Springer.
Demetrescu, M., Georgiev, I., Rodrigues, P. M., and Taylor, A. R. (2020). Testing for episodic

   predictability in stock returns. Journal of Econometrics.
Dou, L. and Müller, U. K. (2021). Generalized local-to-unity models. Econometrica,

   89(4):1825­1854.
Elliott, G. (2011). A control function approach for testing the usefulness of trending variables

   in forecast models and linear regression. Journal of econometrics, 164(1):79­91.
Elliott, G., Müller, U. K., and Watson, M. W. (2015). Nearly optimal tests when a nuisance

   parameter is present under the null hypothesis. Econometrica, 83(2):771­811.
Elliott, G. and Stock, J. H. (1994). Inference in time series regression when the order of

   integration of a regressor is unknown. Econometric theory, 10(3-4):672­700.
Escanciano, J. C. and Goh, S. (2018). Quantile-regression inference with adaptive control of

   size. Journal of the American Statistical Association.
Fan, R. and Lee, J. H. (2019). Predictive quantile regressions under persistence and conditional

   heteroskedasticity. Journal of Econometrics, 213(1):261­280.
Furno, M. (2014). Quantile regression estimates and the analysis of structural breaks. Quan-

   titative Finance, 14(12):2185­2192.
Galvao, A., Montes-Rojas, G., and Olmo, J. (2011). Threshold quantile autoregressive models.

   Journal of Time Series Analysis, 32(3):253­267.

                                                        72
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

Galvao, A. F., Kato, K., Montes-Rojas, G., and Olmo, J. (2014). Testing linearity against
   threshold effects: uniform inference in quantile regression. Annals of the Institute of Statis-
   tical Mathematics, 66(2):413­439.

Georgiev, I., Demetrescu, M., Rodrigues, P. M., and Taylor, A. (2021). Extensions to ivx
   methods of inference for return predictability.

Georgiev, I., Harvey, D. I., Leybourne, S. J., and Taylor, A. R. (2018). Testing for parameter
   instability in predictive regression models. Journal of Econometrics, 204(1):101­118.

Goh, S. C. and Knight, K. (2009). Nonstandard quantile-regression inference. Econometric
   Theory, 25(5):1415­1432.

Gonzalo, J. and Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2012). Regime-specific predictability in predictive regressions.
   Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 30(2):229­241.

Gonzalo, J. and Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2017). Inferring the predictability induced by a persis-
   tent regressor in a predictive threshold model. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics,
   35(2):202­217.

Hansen, B. E. (1996). Inference when a nuisance parameter is not identified under the null
   hypothesis. Econometrica: Journal of the econometric society, pages 413­430.

Hansen, B. E. (2000). Testing for structural change in conditional models. Journal of Econo-
   metrics, 97(1):93­115.

Hanson, B. E. (2002). Tests for parameter instability in regressions with i (1) processes. Journal
   of Business & Economic Statistics, 20(1):45­59.

Harvey, D. I., Leybourne, S. J., and Taylor, A. R. (2021). Simple tests for stock return
   predictability with good size and power properties. Journal of Econometrics.

Hoga, Y. (2017). Change point tests for the tail index of -mixing random variables. Econo-
   metric Theory, 33(4):915­954.

Hoga, Y. (2018). A structural break test for extremal dependence in -mixing random vectors.
   Biometrika, 105(3):627­643.

Jansson, M. and Moreira, M. J. (2006). Optimal inference in regression models with nearly
   integrated regressors. Econometrica, 74(3):681­714.

Kasparis, I., Andreou, E., and Phillips, P. C. B. (2015). Nonparametric predictive regression.
   Journal of Econometrics, 185(2):468­494.

Kato, K. (2009). Asymptotics for argmin processes: Convexity arguments. Journal of Multi-
   variate Analysis, 100(8):1816­1829.

Katsouris, C. G. (2021). Robust structural break tests in predictive regressions with persistent
   predictors. University of Southampton, Working paper.

Kiefer, J. (1967). On bahadur's representation of sample quantiles. The Annals of Mathematical
   Statistics, 38(5):1323­1342.

Knight, K. (1989). Limit theory for autoregressive-parameter estimates in an infinite-variance
   random walk. The Canadian Journal of Statistics/La Revue Canadienne de Statistique,
   pages 261­278.

Koenker, R. and Bassett, G. (1978). Regression quantiles. Econometrica: journal of the
   Econometric Society, pages 33­50.

Koenker, R. and Bassett, G. (1982). Robust tests for heteroscedasticity based on regression
   quantiles. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 43­61.

Koenker, R. and Hallock, K. F. (2001). Quantile regression. Journal of economic perspectives,

                                                        73
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

   15(4):143­156.
Koenker, R. and Machado, J. A. (1999). Goodness of fit and related inference processes for

   quantile regression. Journal of the american statistical association, 94(448):1296­1310.
Koenker, R. and Portnoy, S. (1987). L-estimation for linear models. Journal of the American

   statistical Association, 82(399):851­857.
Koenker, R. and Xiao, Z. (2002). Inference on the quantile regression process. Econometrica,

   70(4):1583­1612.
Koenker, R. and Xiao, Z. (2004). Unit root quantile autoregression inference. Journal of the

   American Statistical Association, 99(467):775­787.
Koenker, R. and Xiao, Z. (2006). Quantile autoregression. Journal of the American statistical

   association, 101(475):980­990.
Koltchinskii, V. I. (1997). M-estimation, convexity and quantiles. The annals of Statistics,

   pages 435­477.
Kostakis, A., Magdalinos, T., and Stamatogiannis, M. P. (2015). Robust econometric inference

   for stock return predictability. The Review of Financial Studies, 28(5):1506­1553.
Koul, H. L. and Saleh, A. M. E. (1995). Autoregression quantiles and related rank-scores

   processes. The Annals of Statistics, pages 670­689.
Kuan, C.-M. and Chen, M.-Y. (1994). Implementing the fluctuation and moving-estimates

   tests in dynamic econometric models. Economics Letters, 44(3):235­239.
Kulperger, R., Yu, H., et al. (2005). High moment partial sum processes of residuals in garch

   models and their applications. The Annals of Statistics, 33(5):2395­2422.
Kwiatkowski, D., Phillips, P. C. B., Schmidt, P., and Shin, Y. (1992). Testing the null hypoth-

   esis of stationarity against the alternative of a unit root: How sure are we that economic
   time series have a unit root? Journal of econometrics, 54(1-3):159­178.
Lee, J. H. (2016). Predictive quantile regression with persistent covariates: Ivx-qr approach.
   Journal of Econometrics, 192(1):105­118.
Leisch, F., Hornik, K., and Kuan, C.-M. (2000). Monitoring structural changes with the
   generalized fluctuation test. Econometric Theory, 16(6):835­854.
Li, H., Zheng, C., and Guo, Y. (2016). Estimation and test for quantile nonlinear cointegrating
   regression. Economics Letters, 148:27­32.
Magdalinos, T. and Phillips, P. C. B. (2009). Limit theory for cointegrated systems with
   moderately integrated and moderately explosive regressors. Econometric Theory, 25(2):482­
   526.
McCloskey, A. (2017). Bonferroni-based size-correction for nonstandard testing problems.
   Journal of Econometrics, 200(1):17­35.
Mikusheva, A. (2007). Uniform inference in autoregressive models. Econometrica, 75(5):1411­
   1452.
Neocleous, T. and Portnoy, S. (2008). On monotonicity of regression quantile functions. Statis-
   tics & probability letters, 78(10):1226­1229.
Newey, W. K. (1991). Uniform convergence in probability and stochastic equicontinuity. Econo-
   metrica: Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1161­1167.
Paye, B. S. (2012). Deja vol: Predictive regressions for aggregate stock market volatility using
   macroeconomic variables. Journal of Financial Economics, 106(3):527­546.
Perron, P. (1991). A continuous time approximation to the unstable first-order autoregressive

                                                        74
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

   process: the case without an intercept. Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society,
   pages 211­236.
Phillips, P. C. B. (1987a). Time series regression with a unit root. Econometrica: Journal of
   the Econometric Society, pages 277­301.
Phillips, P. C. B. (1987b). Towards a unified asymptotic theory for autoregression. Biometrika,
   74(3):535­547.
Phillips, P. C. B. (1988). Regression theory for near-integrated time series. Econometrica:
   Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1021­1043.
Phillips, P. C. B. (2014). On confidence intervals for autoregressive roots and predictive re-
   gression. Econometrica, 82(3):1177­1195.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Lee, J. H. (2013). Predictive regression under various degrees of persis-
   tence and robust long-horizon regression. Journal of Econometrics, 177(2):250­264.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Lee, J. H. (2016). Robust econometric inference with mixed integrated
   and mildly explosive regressors. Journal of Econometrics, 192(2):433­450.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Magdalinos, T. (2007). Limit theory for moderate deviations from a unit
   root. Journal of Econometrics, 136(1):115­130.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Magdalinos, T. (2009). Econometric inference in the vicinity of unity.
   Singapore Management University, CoFie Working Paper, 7.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Park, J. Y. (1988). Asymptotic equivalence of ordinary least squares and
   generalized least squares in regressions with integrated regressors. Journal of the American
   Statistical Association, 83(401):111­115.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Perron, P. (1988). Testing for a unit root in time series regression.
   Biometrika, 75(2):335­346.
Phillips, P. C. B. and Solo, V. (1992). Asymptotics for linear processes. The Annals of
   Statistics, pages 971­1001.
Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2004). Least squares estimation and tests of breaks in mean and variance
   under misspecification. The Econometrics Journal, 7(1):32­54.
Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2014). A joint test for structural stability and a unit root in autoregressions.
   Computational Statistics & Data Analysis, 76:577­587.
Pitarakis, J.-Y. (2017). A simple approach for diagnosing instabilities in predictive regressions.
   Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, 79(5):851­874.
Pollard, D. (1991). Asymptotics for least absolute deviation regression estimators. Econometric
   Theory, 7(2):186­199.
Portnoy, S. (1991). Asymptotic behavior of regression quantiles in non-stationary, dependent
   cases. Journal of Multivariate analysis, 38(1):100­113.
Portnoy, S. (2012). Nearly root-n approximation for regression quantile processes. The Annals
   of Statistics, 40(3):1714­1736.
Qu, Z. (2008). Testing for structural change in regression quantiles. Journal of Econometrics,
   146(1):170­184.
Qu, Z. and Perron, P. (2007). Estimating and testing structural changes in multivariate re-
   gressions. Econometrica, 75(2):459­502.
Qu, Z. and Yoon, J. (2015). Nonparametric estimation and inference on conditional quantile
   processes. Journal of Econometrics, 185(1):1­19.
Ren, Y., Tu, Y., and Yi, Y. (2019). Balanced predictive regressions. Journal of Empirical

                                                        75
Katsouris C. (2021)  Structural Break Detection in Quantile Predictive Regression

   Finance, 54:118­142.
Révész, P. (1982). On the increments of wiener and related processes. The Annals of Probability,

   pages 613­622.
Seo, B. (1998). Tests for structural change in cointegrated systems. Econometric Theory,

   14(2):222­259.
Shao, X. (2010). A self-normalized approach to confidence interval construction in time series.

   Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology), 72(3):343­366.
Stock, J. H. (1994). Unit roots, structural breaks and trends. Handbook of econometrics,

   4:2739­2841.
Su, L. and Xiao, Z. (2008). Testing for parameter stability in quantile regression models.

   Statistics & Probability Letters, 78(16):2768­2775.
Uematsu, Y. (2019). Nonstationary nonlinear quantile regression. Econometric Reviews,

   38(4):386­416.
Van Der Vaart, A. W. and Wellner, J. A. (1996). Weak convergence and empirical processes:

   with applications to statistics. Springer Series in Statistics.
Wang, Q. and Phillips, P. C. B. (2012). A specification test for nonlinear nonstationary models.

   The Annals of Statistics, 40(2):727­758.
Wellner, J. A. W. and van der Vaart, A. W. (2007). Empirical processes indexed by esti-

   mated functions. In Asymptotics: particles, processes and inverse problems, pages 234­252.
   Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
Xiao, Z. (2009). Quantile cointegrating regression. Journal of econometrics, 150(2):248­260.
Yang, B., Long, W., Peng, L., and Cai, Z. (2020). Testing the predictability of us housing price
   index returns based on an ivx-ar model. Journal of the American Statistical Association,
   pages 1­22.
Zhou, K. Q. and Portnoy, S. L. (1998). Statistical inference on heteroscedastic models based
   on regression quantiles. Journal of Nonparametric Statistics, 9(3):239­260.

                     76
