arXiv:2311.08218v6 [econ.EM] 21 Apr 2024  Estimating Conditional Value-at-Risk with Nonstationary
                                                        Quantile Predictive Regression Models

                                                                                 Christis Katsouris
                                                                             University of Southampton

                                                                              & University of Helsinki

                                                                                     Working paper

                                                                                     April 23, 2024

                                                                                                        Abstract
                                                      This paper develops an asymptotic distribution theory for an endogenous instrumentation
                                                  approach in quantile predictive regressions when both generated covariates and persistent pre-
                                                  dictors are used. The generated covariates are obtained from an auxiliary quantile predictive
                                                  regression model and the statistical problem of interest is the robust estimation and inference
                                                  of the parameters that correspond to the primary quantile predictive regression in which this
                                                  generated covariate is added to the set of nonstationary regressors. We find that the proposed
                                                  doubly IVX corrected estimator is robust to the abstract degree of persistence regardless of
                                                  the presence of generated regressor obtained from the first stage procedure. The asymptotic
                                                  properties of the two-stage IVX estimator such as mixed Gaussianity are established while
                                                  the asymptotic covariance matrix is adjusted to account for the first-step estimation error.

                                                      Keywords: risk measures; generated regressors; quantile regression; persistence.

                                                      JEL Classification: C12, C22

                                              Article history: First draft 24 April 2022. Second draft 29 August 2023. Previously titled: "A Doubly IVX
                                          Corrected Estimator for Quantile Predictive Regressions with Nonstationary and Generated Regressors".

                                              Dr. Christis Katsouris is currently a Postdoctoral Researcher at the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of
                                          Helsinki, P.O. Box 17, Arkadiankatu 7 Helsinki, FI-00014 Finland. E-mail: christis.katsouris@helsinki.fi

                                                                                                        i
1 Introduction

Risk monitoring of financial time series as well as portfolio performance measures when obtaining
optimal portfolios can lead to inaccurate results in the case of non-Gaussian (asymmetric) return
distributions. Thus, in order to better measure downside risk in a non-Gaussian setting usually
the risk measures of Value-at-Risk and Expected-Shortfall are used to quantify uncertainty (see,
Lin and Taamouti (2023)). Moreover, estimating risk measures such as the Conditional-Value-at-
Risk, (CoVaR), entails a generated regressor problem, which occurs when an explanatory variable
is constructed using structural econometric methods. We propose an estimation method in nonsta-
tionary time series regression models with generated covariates, which has not seen much attention
in the literature so far and thus requires the development of our own asymptotic theory.

Inferential procedures based on generated regressors are studied in linear and conditional quantile
models as in Chen et al. (2021) (see, Pagan (1984), Doran and Griffiths (1983), Hoffman (1987),
Oxley and McAleer (1993), Dufour and Jasiak (2001) and Chen et al. (2023)), although in the
case of risk measures such as VaR and CoVaR a conditional quantile specification is required.
The conventional approach for estimating these risk measures is to employ stationary quantile
regressions (as in Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) and Härdle et al. (2016)). Several studies in the
literature consider the estimation of risk measures using stationary time series environments either
with parametric (e.g., see He et al. (2020)) or semiparametric approaches (e.g., see, Wang and Zhao
(2016)). In this study, we extend the econometric specifications for the joint estimation of the pair
(VaR, CoVaR) as discussed in the study of Katsouris (2023b) (see also Katsouris (2021, 2023a)),
to the case of nonstationary quantile predictive regression models (see, Lee (2016)), which implies
using a local-to-unity parametrization for modelling the unknown form of persistence.

Specifically, Katsouris (2023b) considers the statistical estimation for covariance-type matrices
with tail forecasts using node-specific quantile predictive regressions, extending the framework of
Katsouris (2021) who discusses identification and estimation issues of conditional quantile risk
measures. However, both of these studies operate under the assumption of time series stationarity,
thereby relying on OLS-based estimators (see, Patton et al. (2019)). Thus, a suitable estimation
approach under the presence of both a generated covariates and persistent regressors, for the joint
estimation of the risk measure pair of (VaR, CoVaR), remains an open problem. Several studies in
the literature develop estimation and inference methods in nonstationary predictive regressionss
robust to the unknown form of persistence, with a notable approach being the IVX filtration of
Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). Motivated by the aforementioned issues, our research objective is
to study the large-sample theory of a doubly IVX corrected estimator in nonstationary quantile
predictive regression for the purpose of estimating risk measures. To the best of our knowledge,
our approach that incorporates the time series properties of regressors (nonstationarity) when
estimating risk measures in a low dimensional setting (small number of regressors relative to the
sample size), is a novel contribution to the literature.

                                                              1
As a result, when developing robust estimation and inference methods in econometric environments
with generated regressors, it is crucial to obtain analytical and computational feasible expressions
for the asymptotic variance of these potentially semiparametric estimators. In particular, Rilstone
(1996) investigates the aspect of generated covariate in a nonparameteric stationary time series
environment. Moreover, Hahn and Ridder (2013) study the asymptotic distribution of three-step
estimators of a finite-dimensional parameter vector where the second step consists of one or more
nonparametric regressions on a regressor that is estimated in the first step. Specifically, the au-
thors using the path-derivative method of Newey (1994), derive the contribution of the first-step
estimator to the influence function is used to investigate the dual role that the first-step estima-
tor plays in the second-step nonparametric regression. Moreover, Bhattacharya (2020) consider
the aspects of estimation and inference in stationary quantile regression models with generated
covariates. Recently, Ghosh and Tan (2022) develop a framework for semiparametric estimation
where a doubly robust estimating function for a low-dimensional parameter is available, depending
on two working models. Therefore, our framework proposes a computationally tractable two-step
algorithm and an asymptotic theory analysis for the doubly IVX corrected estimator (which is
found to robustify inference to the unknown form of persistence1), when estimating risk measures
under the assumption of statistical elicitability (see, Fissler and Ziegel (2016)).

Our practical two stage estimation procedure permits to obtain estimates for the forecasts of the
pair (VaR, CoVaR) based on the econometric specifications of Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016)
(see also Härdle et al. (2016)), but under the assumption of time series nonstationarity using the
local-to-unity parametrization to capture nearly nonstationary regressors as in Lee (2016) and
Fan and Lee (2019). During the first-stage procedure using the nonstationary quantile predictive
regression model (QPR) and the local-to-unity parametrized regressors, we obtain quantile de-
pendent model estimates that correspond to the one-period ahead forecasted VaR risk measure.
During the second stage estimation procedure, the generated regressor that corresponds to the
VaR is employed as an additional covariate to a different QPR model which is employed to obtain
the one-period ahead forecasted CoVaR risk measure. Furthermore, because of the well-known
endogeneity problem (see, Cai and Wang (2014)) that appears due to the correlation between
the two innovation sequences of the predictive regression and the autoregressive equation, pa-
rameter estimation is achieved using the IVX filtration (see, Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) and
Kostakis et al. (2015)), which is robust to the unknown persistence properties of regressors. In
particular, the IVX estimation approach is implemented to both stages of the procedure, thereby
ensuring identification and joint estimation of the risk measures of VaR and CoVaR2.

    1The unknown form of persistence in time series data is modelled via the the local-to-unity parametrization
introduced by the seminal study of Phillips (1987a,b) who established a unified framework for unit root and nearly
integrated processes in time series regression models.

    2Although statistical comparisons between the assumption of stationary regressors against regressors generated
via a LUR parametrization can be constructed more formally using goodness-of-fit testing (e.g., see Chan and Zhang
(2013)); we leave these considerations for future research. On the other hand, more recently Hoga (2023) propose
a framework for the estimation risk in extreme systemic risk forecasts for stationary time series data.

                                                              2
We focus on the IVX estimators in each estimation stage, since it is well-known to be robust to
the abstract degree of persistence (e.g., see Lee (2016)). As a result, the doubly corrected IVX
estimator (which is the IVX estimator obtained from the second step estimation procedure), is the
main parameter of interest in terms of statistical inference and asymptotic theory. Specifically, we
establish the asymptotic properties of the doubly corrected IVX estimator which verify the mixed
Gaussianity property of the limiting distribution regardless of the degree of persistence in both
estimation stages. Moreover, we consider a suitable correction to the expression of the asymptotic
variance-covariance matrix in the second estimation step, which is adjusted in order to account for
the first-step estimation error that produces the generated regressor under nonstationarity.

Regarding the statistical properties of parameters obtained from the first-stage procedure those are
employed for the VaR risk measure forecast and in practice parameter consistency is not violated
(see, Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016)) regardless of the LUR parametrization. In addition, the
particular generated regressor that corresponds to fitted values of a stationary regressand can
be treated as the stationary component of the vector of regressors used during the second stage
procedure (CoVaR). However, the generated regressors are included in the QPR model of the second
estimation step with some sampling error, which introduces additional noise into the asymptotic
variance-covariance matrix of the model coefficients. Therefore, the sampling error from the first
stage contaminates the second stage estimation procedure (see, Chen et al. (2021)). Furthermore,
during the second-stage (CoVaR estimation), model estimates are obtained using the IVX estimator
in which case the generated regressor is exogenously determined, this implies that it can only be
assumed to be stationary (although is modelled as the same lag as the regressand). As a result,
the usual way of calculating the QR variance-covariance matrix fails to account for the additional
source of error and an adjustment is required. To sum-up, the generated regressor is a proxy of
the estimated CoVaR when the nonstationary properties of regressors are included, which implies
that this proxy is treated as a nonstochastic stationary regressor in a quantile predictive regression
model with nonstationary regressors. Thus, accounting for the presence of generated regressor
bias, inference is robustify against both the abstract degree of persistence that these nonstationary
regressors exhibit as well as to the presence of any generated regressor bias.

Recall  that,  the  conditional  quantile  function  F -1      xt-1, y(i)t   is the VaR(j)t () conditional on
                                                       y(j)t

xt-1 and y(i)t, where F (·) is the conditional distribution function and F -1(·) is the conditional

quantile function of the underline distribution. Then, by conditioning on y(i)t = VaR(i)t (), we ob-

tain the CoVaR(j,i)t () defined as (see, Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) and Härdle et al. (2016))

               CoVaR(j,i)t () := inf              P y(j)t xt-1, y(i)t = VaR(i)t ()         (1.1)
                                     VaR(j )t ()                                           (1.2)

Equivalently, it holds that

                    CoVaR(j,i)t  ()    F -1        xt-1, y(i)t = VaR(i)t ()  ,    (0, 1).
                                         y(j)t

                                                     3
Thus, we focus on estimating systemic risk measures conditioned on time series nonstationar-
ity (persistent data) using the LUR parametrization. The nonstationary quantile regression
specifications are employed for forecasting the pair (VaR, CoVaR), based on the definitions of
Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) and the statistical elicitability property of these risk measures
(see, Patton et al. (2019), Frongillo and Kash (2021) and Fissler and Ziegel (2016)). Although,
the loss function which characterizes M-estimators allows to obtain model estimates, thereby di-
rectly affecting the robustness of forecasts, we do not consider the estimation risk in systemic risk
forecasts (see, Dimitriadis et al. (2022), Xu et al. (2022), Hoga (2023) and Katsouris (2023b)).

1.1 Main contributions

 (i). Our first main contribution to the literature is to introduce dynamic co-quantile predictive
       regression models with nonstationary regressors (CoQR - LUR). Our generalized class of
       estimators is employed to jointly estimate the vector (VaR, CoVaR) by incorporating the
       persistence properties of regressors. Our proposed general class of models nests both the
       predictive co-quantile regressions in the spirit of Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) as well as
       the quantile predictive regressions with persistence covariates in the spirit of Lee (2016).

(ii). Our second main contribution is to propose an estimator for the model parameters and derive
       its large sample properties. The main technical difficulty to overcome in developing related
       asymptotic theory, is that the joint estimation of the risk measures of (VaR, CoVaR) fails
       to be elicitable, such that no real-valued scoring function exists that is uniquely minimized
       by the true values of these risk measures (see, Dimitriadis and Hoga (2022)). This pitfall
       suggests the implementation of a two-step M-estimator (see, also Martins-Filho et al. (2018),
       Patton et al. (2019) and Fang et al. (2023)). Our proposed estimation approach extends to
       nonstationary data which is more general than current estimation methods.

(iii). We focus on showing consistency and Asymptotic Mixed Gaussianity of the proposed doubly
       IVX robust estimator and propose a valid inference procedure based on consistent estimation
       of the asymptotic variance-covariance matrix. Our asymptotic theory analysis includes the
       use of the standard local-to-unity asymptotics found in relevant studies (see, Lee (2016) and
       Cai et al. (2023)), but also considers the adjustment for the variance-covariance matrix to
       account for the estimation uncertainty of standard errors during the first stage procedure3.

The use of endogenously generated instruments (IVX filter4) is employed for the purpose of filtering
out the unknown form of persistence in the regressors of each quantile predictive regression used
in the two-stage estimation procedure.

    3It is worth pointing out that formal testing methods for determining the joint statistical significance of these
nearly integrated regressors as predictors for systemic risk is a novel aspect in the literature to the best of our
knowledge when nonstationary predictive regressions include a generated covariate.

    4The ideal IV has to meet two requirements: it is correlated with the endogenous regressor via an explainable
and validated relationship (relevance relationship), yet uncorrelated with the structural error (exclusion restriction).

                                                              4
Regarding identification issues of the risk measure pair (VaR, CoVaR) are discussed in several studies
such as Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016), Härdle et al. (2016), Patton et al. (2019). Moreover,
Fissler and Hoga (2023) mention that although there is no real-valued scoring function associated
with risk measure pairs and propose to consider a R2-valued scoring function in the closely related
context of forecast evaluation. Nevertheless, our estimation method does not rely on the score
function estimation approach, thereby the statistical elicitability property of the risk measure pair
facilitates econometric estimation. We also avoid using copula correction methods (see, Yang et al.
(2022) among others), since within the setting of nonstationary predictive regression models, the
IVX filtration of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) has been found to be robust to abstract degree
of persistence. In addition to the proposed two-stage algorithm for the joint estimation of the risk
measure pair, as well as asymptotic theory analysis of estimators and their covariance matrices,
our framework allows to study statistical inference issues which we leave for future research5.

We propose a practical two-stage estimation procedure6 for estimating the model parameters of the
quantile predictive regression with nonstationary regressors. Then, the second step employs the
generated regressors in the form of fitted values, along with a different set of nonstationary regres-
sors to a quantile predictive regression model. As a result, the doubly IVX corrected estimator, is
the IVX-based estimator corresponding to the second step estimation procedure and is the main
parameter of interest in terms of statistical inference and limit theory. Since the generated regres-
sor is assumed to be estimated using a different functional form as well as nonstationary regressors,
then any dependence structure between the generated regressors is captured by the variance co-
variance matrix of the second-step estimation procedure. Within our econometric environment the
proposed two-stage (semiparametric) estimation method, depends on possibly nonstationary re-
gressors, therefore relevant parameter restrictions on 1 and 2 (see, also Katsouris (2021, 2023b)),
which correspond to the "working" models, are necessary to ensure robust statistical inference.

    5The related statistical inference aspects we refer to here is the subvector inference problem which is commonly
examined in the linear instrumental variables regression model. In that case, our objective is to develop a powerful
test such as the asymptotic null rejection probability is controlled uniformly over a parameter space. The inference
problem consists of making inference on the coefficients of structural models, but in the context of systemic risk
modelling. Such statistical problems usually give attention to aspects such as developing robust methods in the
presence of weak instruments or powerful subvector testing in IV regressions under conditional heteroscedasticity;
we give attention on the simultaneous modelling of risk measures which involve the use of a generated covariate.
Therefore, drawing inference on individual coefficients of the parameter vector of the structural equation for esti-
mating the CoVaR risk measure, motivates us to propose a subvector testing approach which is based on marginal
conditional regression estimation and testing with nonstationary regressors (see, Hsiao (1997) and De Jong (2001)).

    6We study a broad class of semiparametric problems, where a doubly robust estimating function h(U ; , 1, 2),
where   (0, 1) for the parameter of interest  is available as follows. Consider two working models denoted
with g1(xt-1; 1) and g2|1(xt-1; 2) for unknown functions y1t = g1(xt-1) and y2t = g2(xt-1). Furthermore, the
estimating function (in our case it represents the tail estimates for the CoVaR risk measure), h(.; .) is unbiased

such that E h U ; , 1, 2 = 0, when  is set to the true value , and either 1 or 2, but not necessarily both,

is set to the true value 1 or 2 defined respectively such that g1(xt-1)  g1(xt-1) or g2(xt-1)  g2(xt-1) if model
g1(xt-1; 1) or g2(xt-1; 2) is correctly specified. In general, doubly robust estimation using the estimating function
h(U ; , 1, 2) consists of two stages: some estimators ^1, ^2 are first defined, and then ^ is defined by solving
the estimating equation E~ h U ; , ^1, ^2 = 0, where E~[·] denotes a sample average.

                                                              5
For notational convenience consider the following two functional forms:

                               g1(xt-1)  g1 xt-1; 1 = (1) 1 (xt-1) ,                            (1.3)
                               g2(xt-1)  g2 xt-1; 2 = (2) 2(xt-1) ,                             (1.4)

where (xt-1) is p × 1 vector of known functions such as (xt-1) = 1, xt-1 , and 1 and 2
are vectors of unknown coefficients, which correspond to joint estimation as the two models in
Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016). Under time series nonstationarity, the two parameter vectors
are estimated via the IVX filtration of Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). Our implementation is,

however, a plug-in estimation approach and a novel methodology to existing approaches discussed

in the literature. Therefore, we consider the asymptotic theory analysis for ^ 1, ^ 2 and  ^ 1, ^ 2 ,

where 1 and 2 are fixed-dimensional as the sample size n grows. In particular, we assume that

^ 1 is consistent for 1 when the first working model is correctly specified, and ^ 2 is consistent for

     if  the  second  working  model  is  correctly  specified  (absence  of  functional  form  misspecification).
  2

Assume the existence of any two pair of random variables {y1t, y2t} and a set of predictors xt.
Another way of viewing our econometric environment is to consider the example of two-countries
(or firms across two countries) where we have a balanced set of p nonstationary macroeconomic
variables for both economies (or firms), respectively. In particular, let x1t be the (p × 1) vector
of domestic variables and x2t be the (p × 1) vector of the same variables for the foreign country
where each of these possible nonstationary processes have the following LUR parametrizations

                               x1t = R1nx1t-1 + u1t, R1n =      Ip        -   C 1p  .           (1.5)
                                                                               n                (1.6)

                               x2t = R2nx2t-1 + u2t, R2n =      Ip        -   C 2p  .
                                                                               n

Moreover, additionally to these nonstationary regressors that are equation-specific, a generated
covariate is employed as proxy for the risk measure of VaR that represents a quantile risk event
of the macroeconomic conditions of the foreign economy when predicting the current time con-
ditions of the home economy. Our estimation approach combines both the IVX estimator of
Phillips and Magdalinos (2009) (to filter out persistence present in the nonstationary regressors x1t
and x2t), as well as inspired by the residual augmentation approach of Demetrescu and Rodrigues
(2020) we self-instrument the proxy variable (generated covariate) under time series nonstation-
arity (see, also Demetrescu (2014) and Breitung and Demetrescu (2015)). As a result, when
developing the asymptotic theory of the (long-run) quantile-dependent parameter we use a self-
instrumentation approach for the generated regressors that correspond to the systemic risk proxy of
each economy (as the joint estimation approach of Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) and Härdle et al.
(2016)).

                                                     6
Estimation of the CoVaR risk measure is conditioned on the estimated VaR, and relies on a quantile
predictive regression, with both nearly integrated regressors and a generated regressor (proxy for
estimated VaR under nonstationarity). Therefore, in the presence of this additional covariate,
there are more regressors than available instruments. To overcome this issue, Demetrescu (2014)
propose a framework for inference in an augmented predictive regression. In that case, the author
propose to instrument that additional covariate with the same process itself. We follow a similar
approach in our setting although with major necessary modifications.

1.2 Estimation Algorithm

Our proposed two-stage estimation procedure is summarized as below:

Step 1. (Estimation of VaR under time series nonstationarity). Let 1() be the parameter vector of
           interest (without IVX filtration yet). Then, the QR-estimator is (see, Lee (2016))

                                                           n                   (1.7)

                          1() = arg min  y1t - x1 t-11 .
                                             Rp i=1

where the check function is defined as (u) := u  - 1 {u  0} and xt are LUR regressors.

During this step in practice we replace the QR-estimator with the QR-IVX estimator from
Lee (2016) due to the presence of nonstationary regressors. Then, the estimated one-period
ahead risk measure of VaR is obtained, denoted by y^1VtaR. In the case of N cross-sectional
units all these generated covariates (under time series nontationarity), shall be computed7.

Step 2. (Estimation of CoVaR under time series nonstationarity). Compute the unknown parameter
           vector 2() from the following QR model

2() = arg min n  y2t - x~2 t-12 ,  x~ 2t-1 = x2t-1                   y1VtaR .  (1.8)
                 2Rp+1 i=1

where 2 corresponds to the parameter vector of the nonstationary regressors of the second-
stage as well as the unknown parameter that correspond to the fitted-values of the VaR8 that

have been estimated during the first-stage estimation procedure.

Recall that the conditional quantile can be consistently estimated based on the quantile-dependent
model parameter 2() such that Q(|x2t-1, y1VtaR) = x~2t-12() (see, Koenker and Bassett (1978)).

In a similar spirit the corresponding IVX estimators are obtained.

    7Note that the main idea of modelling systemic risk based in this approach is proposed by Katsouris (2021)
and Katsouris (2023b) which is also related to various studies in the literature of financial connectedness (see,
Billio et al. (2012), Diebold and Yilmaz (2012) and Diebold and Yilmaz (2014) among others.

    8In the framework of Härdle et al. (2016), this coefficient corresponds to the unknown model parameter ^j|i in
their expression (6). See also expressions (7) and (8) of Härdle et al. (2016) that correspond to the econometric
specifications used to obtain the estimates of the risk measure pair under the assumption of stationary regressors.

                          7
Therefore, one uses the estimates of j, denoted by j, in the first step, to obtain the gener-
ated regressor xt. Our aim is to demonstrate that our proposed methodology achieve rate and
model double robustness simultaneously, provided that the parameter  satisfies certain regularity
conditions. In the current study the doubly IVX corrected estimation approach corresponds to
conditional quantile specification forms for nonstationary data.

The remained of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce the econometric
model and the main assumptions of our framework. In Section 3 we present our proposed doubly
corrected estimation method in the case of conditional mean functional forms while in Section 4
discusses the conditional quantile case which corresponds to the estimation of the risk measures
under time series nonstationarity. We conclude in Section 5.

Throughout the paper, for any vector a, we denote with a 1 = j |aj| and with a 2 = j |aj|2.
For any real arbitrary matrix A, its Frobenius norm is defined by A = trace(AA). The

spectral norm of A is denoted by A 2, such that, A 2 = 1(AA), is maximum column

sum norm is A 1 = A 1 = max1jn                   m    |Aij |  and  its  maximum  row    sum  norm  is  A =
                                                 i=1
                                                 P                                                  D
A  = max1in  m    |Aij        |.  The  operator       denotes  convergence  in   probability,  and     denotes
             i=1

convergence in distribution.

2 Econometric Model and Assumptions

2.1 Main Assumptions

Consider the linear predictive regression model formulated as below

                                  yt = µ + xt-1 + ut, 1  t  n                                          (2.1)
                                  xt = Rnxt-1 + vt                                                     (2.2)

where xt  Rp is a p-dimensional vector and Rn =               Ip   -    Cp  with  = 1.
                                                                        n

We begin by discussing the predictive regression with a conditional mean functional form, but for

the purpose of estimating the risk measures pair (VaR, CoVaR) a conditional quantile specification

form is necessary. The asymptotic behaviour of estimators under moderate deviations from unity

(e.g., on the explosive side) is beyond the scope of our study (e.g., see, Phillips and Magdalinos

(2007), Buchmann and Chan (2007)). Several studies consider estimation methods for unified in-

ference in predictive regression models such as Magdalinos (2020) and Magdalinos and Petrova

(2022). Furthermore, our estimation method differs in several ways to various respectful school of

thoughts and approaches presented in the literature such as the two-step estimator of Francq and Zakoïan

(2015) (see also Beutner et al. (2024) and Francq and Zakoian (2023)); the research perspective

we follow for the development of our econometric environment is concisely explained in Section 1

(see, Adrian and Brunnermeier (2016) and Härdle et al. (2016)).

                                                      8
Assumption 1. Let t = (ut, et ) be an Rp+1-valued martingale difference sequence with respect
to the filtration Ft =  t, t-1, ... with E tt | Ft-1 =  > 0. Let vt be an Rp-valued

stationary linear process such that

                with   

vt = F jet-j ,             F j < ,

          j=0         j=0

                                                                                                                             

where F j is a sequence of constant matrices such that I0 = Ip, F j has full rank.

                                                                                                                            j=0

Borrowing from the literature in the case when uv = 0 (which is the case we consider), the
exact OLS bias of ^ is computed from the predictive regression model, E ^ -  = E [^ - ]
where ^ is the OLS estimate of  and  := uv/v2 is the slope coefficient of in a regression of ut
on vt. Furthermore, since ^ is known to be downward biased in small-samples, and (ut, vt) are
typically strongly negatively contemporaneously correlated, the autoregressive OLS bias feeds into
the small-sample distribution of ^ causing over-rejections of the null hypothesis of no predictability,

H0 :  = 0. Moreover, notice even with the use of a possible finite-sample-bias correction on the
OLS estimate, this reduces the noncentrality of the limiting distribution of the OLS t-statistic,

but the distribution remains nonstandard in the near-integrated case.

Remark 1. Assumption 1 imposes a condition of a martingale difference sequence (regressor
predeterminedness) for the innovation term ut and allows to impose further assumptions regarding
the modelling of conditional heteroscedasticity via volatility processes such as ARCH/GARCH
(see, Phillips and Magdalinos (2009)). A Garch process is a typical example of a strong mixing
process with exponential tails (see, Meitz and Saikkonen (2023)).

Under Assumption 1 a functional central limit theorem holds (Phillips and Solo (1992))

xnr     J c(r)  :=   r                                                                  (2.3)
   n
                      e(r-s)C dW (s),

                    0

which satisfies the following stochastic differential equation

dJ c(r) = cJ c(r)dr + dW (r), r  (0, 1).

Relevant notation can be found in several studies in the literature such as Dickey and Fuller (1981),
Jansson and Moreira (2006), Mikusheva (2012) and Demetrescu and Rodrigues (2020) among oth-
ers. Furthermore, to avoid confusion regarding the properties of estimators based on a conditional
mean functional form vis-a-vis a conditional quantile functional form, we include the relevant as-
sumptions in this section. A similar approach of comparing estimation approaches across these two
different modelling methods is presented by Liu and Phillips (2023), although in our framework
this is might be practical given the gap in the literature on the relevant econometric issues we aim
to tackle. The identification of the risk measures is based on definitions (1.1)-(1.2).

                9
Assumption 2. The distribution function of innovations ut, F (u) admits a continuous density
function f (u) away from zero on the domain U := {u : 0 < F (u) < 1}.

Assumption 3. Let P (Yt < y|Xt = x) , y  R, x  Rp be the conditional distribution function,
denoted by F (·) which is absolutely continuous with respect to Lebesgue measure on R with
continuous density functions fi(·)  f (·|xi), where for each i = 1, 2, ... fi(·) is uniformly bounded
away from zero and infinity.

Then, the conditional quantile function of yt denoted with Qyt (|Ft-1), replaces the conditional
mean function of the predictive regression which implies the following model specification

       Qyt  (|Ft-1)  :=  F -1        ()     ()  +    ()xt-1.            (2.4)
                           yt |xt-1

such that Fyt|xt-1() := P yt  Qyt (|Ft-1) Ft-1  , where   (0, 1) is some quantile level
in the compact set (0, 1). Therefore, in order to define the innovation structure that corresponds

to the quantile predictive regression, we employ the piecewise derivative of the loss function such
that (u) =  - 1 {u < 0} . Consequently, this implies that ut() := ut - Fu-1() where Fu-1( )
denotes the unconditional -quantile of the error term ut. Then, the corresponding invariance
principle for the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model is formulated as below

                                                                      
1 nr  ut()   B (r)(1×n)  BM (1 - )
n t=1       vt            B v (r)(p×n)                 v         v      (2.5)
                                                               vv

Assumption 4. Under Assumption 2 and 3, then the following conditions for the innovation
sequence hold (see, Katsouris (2023c)):

(i) The sequence of stationary conditional probability distribution functions (pdf) denoted with
       fut(),t-1(.) evaluated at zero with a non-degenerate mean function such that fut()(0) :=

     E fut(),t-1(0) > 0 satisfies a FCLT given as below

       1 nr     fut(),t-1(0) - E     fut(),t-1(0)       Bfut() (r).     (2.6)
         n t=1

(ii) For each t and   (0, 1), fut(),t-1(.) is uniformly bounded away from zero with a corre-
       sponding conditional distribution function Ft(.) which is absolutely continuous with respect
       to Lebesgue measure on R (see, Goh and Knight (2009) and Lee (2016)).

where the following probability bound holds uniformly (see for example Kulperger et al. (2005))

          sup     1  nr   [fut,t-1(0)    -  fu (0)]  = op(1).
                n1-  t=1
         0r1

                          10
2.2 IVX filtration

A solution to the endogeneity problem discussed above, which provides robust statistical infer-
ence, is the IVX filtration proposed by Phillips and Magdalinos (2009). The IVX instrumenta-
tion ensures instrument relevance while controlling for the abstract degree of persistence (see,
Kostakis et al. (2015)) and is constructed as below

                                  t-1                    1       -  cz    , cz > 0 and z  (0, 1).                      (2.7)
                                                                    nz
                        zt := zj xt-j , z =

                                  j=0

The IVX filtration for xt, is chosen so that zt corresponds to a mildly integrated process when

the predictor xt is nearly integrated. Therefore, the IVX estimator of  is found to have a slower

convergence   rate   than   the  conventional        OLS         estimator  under  near  integration,      such  that  n 1+z
                                                                                                                              2

(see, also Katsouris (2023a) and Duffy and Kasparis (2021)). The asymptotic theory of the IVX

estimator can be found to be mixed Gaussian irrespectively of the degree of endogeneity implied

by , leading to standard inference in t and Wald tests. Moreover, it can be proved that under

low persistence, the IVX estimator is asymptotically equivalent to the OLS procedure. Our main

focus in this paper is the estimation of the risk measures of VaR and CoVaR using nearly integrated

regressors, which is a novel aspect in the literature as conventional estimation approaches mainly

consider that macroeconomic variables are stationary. Specifically, we start by considering the

estimation of the VaR with a nearly integrated regressor. A vast literature has previously proposed

robust methodologies for estimating the parameter of interest using the OLS approach and found

evidence of significant size distortions when the model includes high persistence regressors.

Example 1. To obtain the IVX estimator for the linear predictive regression we employ the

demeaned variates denoted with ytµ = xµt-1 + vtµ, where the sample moments are estimated as

y¯t =  yt  -    1  n    yt  (e.g., see Demetrescu and Rodrigues (2020) ). The IVX estimator9 is
              n-1  t=1

                                    ivx =         n                   -1    n

                                                     x¯ t-1 z                 ytzt-1 .                                 (2.8)
                                                                 t-1

                                              t=1                           t=1

Denote with ols the OLS estimator and define the OLS residuals utols = y¯t - olsx¯t-1 and the

residual   variance  estimator   u2   =    1      n      u2t  .  Moreover, the IVX-Wald statistic under the null
                                         n-1      t=1

hypothesis is W = ivxV -1ivx, where a feasible estimator for the covariance matrix is given by

                     V ivx =     n                   -1         n                  n                -1

                                      x¯ t-1zt-1         u2 zt-1zt-1                    x¯ t-1zt-1      .              (2.9)

                                 t=1                          t=1                  t=1

if our main interest is testing the null hypothesis of no predictability.

    9An alternative estimation approach to IVX which also ensures unified inference in the case of quantile-dependent
parameters is proposed by Liu et al. (2023). An augmented quantile predictive regression approach is currently work
in progress by Katsouris (2023d)

                                                                 11
2.3 Two-Stage Estimation Procedure

Assumption 5. Suppose that Assumptions 1 to 3 hold, then based on the conditional quantile
functional form of the nonstationary quantile predictive regression, all quantile-dependent param-
eters are assumed to be constant for any fixed quantile level   T = (0, 1).

2.3.1 First-Stage Procedure

During the first stage of our procedure we obtain a consistent estimator of the parameter vector.
We focus on the IVX estimator which is found to be robust to the abstract degree of persistence
(nearly integrated regressors). The econometric model is the linear predictive regression as below

y1,t = 01() + 11()x1,t-1 + u1t(), for t = 1, ..., n                 (2.10)
x1,t = R1,nx1,t-1 + v1,t                                            (2.11)

Denote with () = (01(), 1 1()) and the corresponding IVX estimator with ivx(). The
asymptotic behaviour of the IVX estimator that corresponds to the linear predictive regression
model under abstract degree of regressors persistence is studied by Kostakis et al. (2015) while the
asymptotic properties of the IVX estimator for the quantile predictive regression model is studied
by Lee (2016). Since when estimating the risk measure pair (VaR, CoVaR), we use the conditional
quantile distribution, i.e., to capture the effect of xt-1 on the conditional quantile of yt; however
with the additional assumption of possibly nonstationary regressors (see, also Koenker and Xiao
(2004) and Xiao (2009)), then estimation relies on the nonstationary quantile predictive regression.

2.3.2 Second-Stage Procedure

During the second stage of our procedure we consider a consistent estimator of the parameter
vector for the set of regressors which includes the nonstationary regressors as well as the generated
regressor from the first stage procedure. More precisely, the generated regressor in our study
corresponds to the fitted values of the predictive regression model based on the IVX estimator
obtained in the first stage procedure.

y2,t = 02() + 12()x2,t-1 + ()y1,t ivx() + u2t(), for t = 1, ..., n  (2.12)
                                                                    (2.13)
x2,t = R2,nx2,t-1 + v2,t, Rjn =  Ip  -  Cjp  ,  = 1.
                                        n

where Cjp = diag {cj1, ..., cjp} and j  {1, 2}. Define with () = 02(), 1 2(), ()  the
parameter vector of the second stage procedure and the corresponding IVX estimator with ivx().

Specifically, we observe that this extended parameter vector includes both the nearly integrated
regressors as well as the generated regressor from the first stage estimation step.

                                        12
In this case, we need to develop the asymptotic distribution theory for both the OLS and IVX
estimators when the generated regressor is included in the set of regressors in the second stage
predictive regression model that corresponds to the econometric specification of the CoVaR risk
measure. A modified IVX estimator is necessary to be developed in order to account for the
presence of the particular effect in the setting of the quantile predictive regression models. The
nuisance coefficient of persistence is defined such that ci > 0 and is either  = 1, which corresponds
to near unit root regressors or   (0, 1) that corresponds to mildly integrated regressors.

Therefore, the focus of this paper is the implementation of the above econometric environment
and the development of the corresponding asymptotic theory in the case of the quantile predictive
regression model. Consider the piecewise derivative of the loss function which is defined as below
 (u) =  - 1 (u < 0). Then the innovation sequence of the quantile predictive regression model,
ut() = ut - Fu-1(), and Fu-1() is the unconditional -quantile of ut, where   (0, 1) is a fixed
quantile (see, Lee (2016), Fan and Lee (2019) and Katsouris (2022)). Thus, the ivx estimator is
obtained from the first stage procedure using the IVX filter10 for the model coefficients based on
the nonstationary regressors which implies that the generated regressor is defined as

                                       y1,t ivx() = x1 ,t-1ivx()                                 (2.14)

Then, to conduct inference we need to obtain a consistent estimator for the covariance matrix of

~  ivx  using  the  usual  "sandwich"  formula  given  below  (see,  Demetrescu  and  Rodrigues  (2020)).
   2

3 Doubly Corrected Estimation Method: Conditional Mean Case

3.1 Residual Augmented IVX Estimation Example

We begin our asymptotic theory analysis by considering the framework for the residual augmented
IVX estimation methodology previously examined in the literature (see, Demetrescu and Rodrigues
(2020)). The IVX instrumentation provides a methodology such that the asymptotic distribution
of the IVX-Wald based test statistic converges to a nuisance-parameter free distribution. Consider
the feasible predictive regression defined with the following form

                           ytµ = xtµ-1 + v^t + t, t i.i.d and t = 1, ..., n.                     (3.1)

where ytµ and xtµ-1 denote the demeaned variates, following the notation employed in several studies
in the literature. Moreover, v^t represents a generated covariate which in our study corresponds to
the estimated VaR under nonstationarity.

  10The reason that we apply the IVX instrumentation procedure only to the estimate from the first stage quantile
predictive regression model rather to the corresponding generated covariate is to ensure that those fitted values can
preserve their definition as the estimated Value-at-Risk but in our case adjusted based on the presence of persistent
predictors and corrected accordingly using the IVX methodology.

                                                       13
Remark 2. The parameter of interest for inference purposes is the slope coefficient of the quantile
predictive regression with the augmented regressor. The IVX estimator of , has a slower conver-
gence rate than the conventional OLS estimator under near integration, but for low persistence it
is asymptotically equivalent to the OLS estimator. However, the IVX estimator is mixed Gaussian
in the limit regardless of the degree of endogeneity which implies standard inference based on the
Wald test. Furthermore, we conjecture that the generated regressor since it is stationary it will not
affect the convergence of the IVX estimator to its asymptotic limit, given the lower convergence
rate of IVX compared to the OLS estimator. Roughly speaking our two-stage estimation procedure
has some similarities with the residual-based augmentation of Demetrescu and Rodrigues (2020).
Nevertheless the objective of our asymptotic theory analysis is to demonstrate that in finite and
large samples such good properties hold under the presence of the generated covariate.

3.2 Generated Regressor in Nonstationary Linear Predictive Regression

Recall that the above expressions correspond to the model estimates of linear predictive regression
model with conditional mean functional form, while the risk measures require to use the quantile
predictive regression framework. In any case, to keep track of our derivations we begin our analysis
using the linear predictive regression model and the framework of residual-based augmentation of
Demetrescu and Rodrigues (2020), but we replace the regressor v^t with the generated dependent
variable, y¯1,t, which is used as a proxy for VaR under time series nonstationarity

In compact form we have that

y¯2,t = Xt-1 + t, t i.i.d and t = 1, ..., n.                           (3.2)

where Xt-1 = x¯2t-1 y¯1,t and  =   . Moreover, define with Zt-1 = z2t-1 y¯1,t where zt-1
is the IVX instrument for x2t-1 and the generated regressor is self-instrumented.

The generated covariate y¯1,t corresponds to the estimated VaR under nonstationarity. In practise,
these nonstationary predictors can be different than the nonstationary predictors corresponding to
the regressand y2,t due to the proposed dependence structure. However, for simplicity we can also
consider the case in which we use the same nonstationary regressors for both predictive regression
models. In this section, we obtain derivations for the linear predictive regression model. However,
when estimating the risk measures of VaR and CoVaR, the nonstationary quantile predictive regres-
sion models are used which implies that all parameters are quantile-dependent for a fixed quantile
  (0, 1). Therefore, we are interested for the consistent estimation of the 2 estimator (e.g., via
IVX) as well as constructing hypothesis testing for: (i) only  parameter (e.g., no predictability),
(ii) only  parameter (e.g., no presence of generated regressor) and (iii) linear restrictions on all
the parameters of the predictive regression model that includes both nonstationary regressors and
the generated regressor (e.g., univariate generated regressor).

14
The covariance estimator for ~ i2vx is expressed as below

Cov ~ i2vx  :=  Bn-1  Vn      B    -1          Bn :=        n
                                   n
                                         ,                    x¯ t-1zt-1

                                                            t=1                                          

                n                                      1     n                     1   n                 -1   n
                                                       n    t=1                    n  t=1
Mn :=                zt-1  z       ~2t  +                        zt-1x¯ t-1                x¯ t-1x¯ t-1              t       x¯ t-1x¯ t-1
                              t-1                                                                                       t

                t=1                                                                                           t=1

                      1   n                    -1   1   n
                      n  t=1                        n  t=1
            ×                 x¯ t-1x¯ t-1                     x¯ t-1 z       .
                                                                         t-1

Therefore, the just-identified model for the combined IVX estimator of  is given by

                                        ^ =    n                    -1 n           Zt-1y¯2,t .
                                                       t-1
                                                    Z       X  t-1                                                           (3.3)

                                               t=1                            t=1

Furthermore, notice that the nonstationary regressors xt-1 and the generated regressor are orthog-
onal since the generated regressor can be considered as exogenous variable to the particular model,
then we can compute the generated regressor augmented estimator and test statistic in two steps.
Notice the constructed test statistic refers to the IVX estimator. Therefore, we focus on deriving
the asymptotic distribution for the IVX estimator under the presence of the generated regressor
in the quantile predictive regression model. The estimation procedure is implemented into two-
stages, and our asymptotic theory analysis demonstrates that although the limit converges into a
nonstandard distribution the particular limit is nuisance-parameter free.

Remark 3. The key point in this estimation step, is that the variance-covariance needs to be
adjusted to account for the first-step estimation error. In other words, when estimating the VaR
using the quantile predictive regression of the first stage, the forecast at the current time period
t, is estimated with some additional source of error. For this reason, an adjustement is necessary.
Consider the estimated coefficient of the quantile predictive regression model of the first stage as

                                        Q y2t|xt-1, y1t = Xt-1,   (0, 1).                                                    (3.4)

The estimation step needs to account for two sources of errors, that is, the usaul estimation error
in obtaining a consistent estimator that corresponds to the IVX instrumentation of the nearly
integrated regressors, and the second source of error is the sampling error in generating the forecast
for the VaR from the first stage of the process. More specifically, this implies that using a Bahadur
representation of the QR-IVX estimator we need to determine the precise stochastic order of the
remainder term when the generated regressor is included in the conditional quantile specification
of the model. Although when the parameter vector from the first stage is obtained via the IVX
filtration, it has the usual convergence rate that the IVX estimator has, an estimation error carries
in the second-stage estimation procedure, which requires us to consider a suitable correction to
the overall variance due to the presence of the generated regressor.

                                                             15
Moreover, we expect that the stochastic equicontinuity property to still hold regardless of the
plug-in estimation approach and the presence of time series nonstationarity.

3.2.1 Estimation Procedure in Nonstationary Linear Predictive Regression Case

Step 1. OLS-regress y¯2,t on the generated regressor y¯1,t and obtain the OLS estimator below

                                                     n  y¯12,t  -1  n

ols =                                                                 y¯1,ty¯2,t .             (3.5)

                                                   t=1              t=1

and compute the residual such that t = y¯2,t-olsy¯1,t. Here we assume that the elements of the
dependent vector are not serially correlated, which implies that y1t and y2t are uncorrelated.
This simplifies the development of the asymptotic theory, despite the presence of endogeneity
and highly persistent regressors.

Step 2. IVX-regress y¯2,t on x¯t-1, leading to

2ivx =                                          n                   -1   n

                                                     x¯ t-1zt-1            y~tzt-1 .           (3.6)

                                                t=1                      t=1

Recall the linear predictive regression model (for node 1) is given by y1,t = 1xt-1 + u1,t and
xt = Rxt-1 + v1,t. Then we estimate the following model

y¯2,t = 2 x¯ t-1 + y¯1,t + u2,t                                                                (3.7)

Moreover, by OLS-regressing y¯2,t on y¯1,t such that y¯2,t = y¯1,t + t, where t is a disturbance term,
we construct the transformed dependent variable y~2,t given by the following expression

y~2,t := y¯2,t - olsy¯1,t                                                                      (3.8)

· In the second stage of the estimation procedure, we need to re-estimate the quantile kernel
   function when the generated regressor is included in the design matrix, especially when
   constructing the Wald test under the null hypothesis of no systemic risk in the network.
   To obtain a measure of the performance of the testing procedure, we need to compare the
   standard estimation procedure without the variance-covariance matrix correction against the
   estimation procedure that includes the adjustment, in both cases under the null hypothesis.
   Then, under the alternative hypothesis of deviations, that is, existence of non-zero systemic
   risk effect in the network (see, Katsouris (2021, 2023b)), then the larger this distance is,
   under the adjustement then the larger the power function of the test would be when all
   the individual quantile predictive regression models of the system correspond to a non-zero
   coefficient of node-specific systemic risk.

                                                        16
· When the nonstationary regressors for the two nodes are the same then second-order effects
   can contribute to the covariance of the estimator (estimation bias). However, due to the
   proposed dependence structure (see, Katsouris (2021, 2023b)), these possibly nonstationary
   regressors are assumed to be different across the system-specific equations. Moreover, the
   generated covariate, denoted by, y1,t, corresponds to the risk measure estimate of VaR, which
   can have a direct impact on the convergence rate for consistent estimation of the model
   parameter , during the second-stage estimation procedure. In summary, we need to control
   for two effects, that is, a bias effect on the estimate of  and a variance effect. The bias
   effect will disappear when xt-1 and the regressors used to estimate y1,t are uncorrelated.
   The variance effect appears due to the choice of the generated regressors. Standard OLS
   estimation methods do not correct for the particular variance effect. However, the variance
   effect does not influence the inference methodology for the estimator ^2, in which case our
   asymptotic theory analysis shall investigate that a consistent estimator is obtained regardless
   of the presence of nonstationarity. Thus, we use the generated covariate, y1,t, from the first-
   stage estimation procedure as an additional regressor to the nonstationary regressors that
   correspond to node 2, for estimating the risk measure of CoVaR.

Therefore, the IVX estimator during the second-stage estimation procedure (CoVaR) is obtained
by the following expression:

~ i2vx =  n                     -1    n

               x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1             y~2,tz  
                                                   2,t-1

          t=1                         t=1

          n    x¯ 2,t-1z2,t-1   -1 n       2x¯ 2,t-1 + y1,t + u2,t - olsy1,t z2 ,t-1

=

          t=1                         t=1

                                n                      -1     n               n                              -1  n

= 2 - ols -                           x¯ 2,t-1z2,t-1            y1,tz2,t-1 +                x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1        u2,tz2 ,t-1 .

                                t=1                           t=1             t=1                                t=1

By rearranging we obtain that

~ 2ivx - 2 = - ols -                  n                       -1 n                          n                    -1 n

                                           x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1                 y1,tz2,t-1 +          x¯ 2,t-1z2,t-1            u2,tz         .
                                                                                                                                  2,t-1

                                      t=1                             t=1                   t=1                       t=1

The first term of the above expression is simplified as below

                                   n                      -1   n i1vxx¯ 1,t-1z2 ,t-1         i1vx.

                                      x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1         t=1                                                          (3.9)

                                t=1

which holds when we have identical nonstationary regressors such that x¯1,t-1  x¯2,t-1. Then,

               ~ i2vx - 2                                     ivx      n                    -1   n
                                                              1
                                =-    ols -            ×           +        x¯ 2,t-1z2,t-1         u2,tz2,t-1 .            (3.10)

                                                                       t=1                       t=1

                                                                   17
Remark 4. Notice that when xt-1 and y1,t are not correlated, then ols is a consistent estimator
of . However, in the case we employ the same nonstationary predictors to estimate the value of
y1,t then these two quantities are correlated which requires to consider the stochastic dominance
of terms due to the presence of different effects. Nevertheless, the network dependence structure
proposed by Katsouris (2021, 2023b) ensures identification and consistent estimation of model
coefficients which are important for inference purposes.

Recall that i1vx corresponds to the IVX estimator of the quantile predictive regression model for
the VaR risk measure. From Lemma B4 of Kostakis et al. (2015) it holds that

                                                1        n                          0, u22 × V cz       .                                 (3.11)
                                              n 1+z
                                                            z2,t-1u2,t  N
                                                     2
                                                        t=1

Therefore, by incorporating the convergence rate we have that

n 1+z     ~ i2vx - 2        = n 1+z            - ols × i1vx +                   1   n                      -1          1        n
       2                                 2                                    n1+z                                   n 1+z
                                                                                         x¯ 2,t-1z                                 z2,t-1u2,t       .
                                                                                                    2,t-1                   2
                                                                                                                               t=1
                                                                                    t=1

Thus, for the LUR regressor case we have that the second term of expression (3.12) converges to

  1       n                        -1           1        n                                   1
n1+z                                          n 1+z
               x¯ 2,t-1  z                                  z2,t-1u2,t      -       uu +    0 J µc dJc         C     -1   ×  N  0, u22 × V Cz          .
                            2,t-1                    2                                                               z
                                                        t=1
          t=1

To see this, from the Appendix of KMS expression (27) gives that

                                     1          n                                                   -1
                                   n1+z                                                             z
                                                   x¯ 2,t-1z             =    uu + V C C     C          +  op(1).                         (3.12)
                                                              2,t-1

                                              t=1

where the stochastic covariance matrices are defined as below

                            VC =                erC uuerC dr             and    V Cz = 0    erCz uuerCz dr.                               (3.13)
                                           0

Notice that by Kostakis et al. (2015) we have that uu =                                   uu +              1  J  µ  dJc     since we consider
                                                                                                           0      c

local unit root regressors. Therefore, similar to Theorem A (i) of KMS it holds that

  1            n                       -1         1         n                                                        
n1+z                                            n 1+z
                  x¯ 2,t-1  z                                  z2,t-1u2,t        MN      0, u22 ×          -1            CzV    Cz  C  z  -1
                               2,t-1                   2                                                      u2u2                           u2 u2
                                                           t=1
             t=1

which is a mixed Gaussian random variate since the covariance matrix is a function of the OU
process. Next we investigate the asymptotic behaviour of the first term of expression (3.12):

                                                        A  :=  n 1+z      - ols     × 1ivx.                                               (3.14)
                                                                      2

                                                                            18
Specifically, assuming that node 1 and 2 have a set of nonstationary regressors that are generated
from non-identical stochastic processes (i.e., not identical regressors), then it follows that

      n                        -1  n

A=         x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1              x¯ 1,t-1  z            × i1vx
   =                                                 2,t-1
                                                                  
      t=1                          t=1                                                                                                 
                                                               × 1 +
      n                        -1  n                                               n                           -1   n

           x¯ 2,t-1z2 ,t-1              x¯ 1,t-1  z                                     x¯ 1,t-1  z                    u¯1,tz1,t-1  .
                                                     2,t-1                                           1,t-1
                                                                                                                   t=1
      t=1                          t=1                                             t=1

Regarding the asymptotic behaviour of the first term of the expression we have that the IVX
estimator from the quantile predictive regression that corresponds to the VaR risk measure is

           i1vx =           n                     -1        n

                               x¯ 1,t-1z1,t-1                  y1,tz               ,      y¯1,t = 1 x¯ 1,t-1 + u¯1,t
                                                                         1,t-1

                        t=1                              t=1

                                   n                        -1     n

                     = 1 +              x¯ 1,t-1z1 ,t-1              u¯1,tz1 ,t-1 .

                                   t=1                          t=1

Moreover, the number of nonstationary regressors for both econometric specifications is the same
although these two sets of regressors possibly have different nuisance parameters of persistence.
The limiting distributions for their IVX estimators have the same dimensions such that

           n 1+z     1ivx - 1                1           n                            -1      1        n
                  2                        n1+z                                             n 1+z
                                        =                      x¯ 1,t-1  z                                u¯1,tz1 ,t-1
                                                                            1,t-1                  2
                                                                                                      t=1
                                                      t=1

                                         MN           0, u21 ×           -1             CzV       C      -1        .
                                                                            u1u1                            u1 u1
                                                                                             Cz       z

Rearranging the above expressions, we obtain the following limit result

n 1+z      ~  ivx    -  2      - 1      =   - ols              × MN         0, u21 ×         -1             CzV          C     -1
       2      2                                                                                 u1 u1                              u1u1
                                                                                                                   Cz       z

                                           + MN             0, u22 ×        -1              CzV          C     -1        .               (3.15)
                                                                               u2u2                               u2 u2
                                                                                                     Cz     z

In this paper we are not proposing any novel solution to the endogeneity issue in quantile pre-
dictive regressions models. We employ a well-investigated method in the literature that tackles
the endogeneity problem, meaning it produces weak convergence results into standard asymptotic
distributions (see, Lee (2016), Fan and Lee (2019)). Alternative approaches that tackle the endo-
geneity problem and produce uniform valid inference regardless of the unknown persistence prop-
erties are proposed in the frameworks of Cai et al. (2023) and Liu et al. (2023). In contrast, our
study provides a general framework and establish the asymptotic properties for quantile predictive
regression models with a generated regressor, which is particularly useful when jointly estimating
the risk measure pair of (VaR, CoVaR) under the presence of time series nonstationarity.

                                                               19
In fact, regardless of the estimation method employed to robustify the quantile-based model param-
eters to the unknown persistence, when estimating the CoVaR as per (Adrian and Brunnermeier,
2016) and Härdle et al. (2016), under time series nonstationarity (LUR parametrization), similar
econometric issues need to be tackled to ensure relevant statistical properties still hold.

3.2.2 Asymptotic Properties of Stage-2 Estimator

Next, consider for a moment the limiting distribution of ols -  where y¯2,t = y1,t+t. Therefore,

                                                            n           -1     n              , where y1,t := 1ivxx1,t-1 which

the OLS estimator of  is given by ols =                          y12,t           y¯2,ty1,t

implies that it can be expressed as below                t=1                   t=1

                               n           -1 n     y¯2,t1ivxx1,t-1 =          n              -1 n   y¯2,tx1,t-1 1ivx.

                 ols =              y12,t                                           y12,t                                           (3.16)

                               t=1             t=1                             t=1            t=1

However, y¯2,t = 2x¯2,t-1 + y1,t + u2,t which implies that

                   n           -1   n

     ols =              y12,t           2 x¯ 2,t-1 + y1,t + u2,t x1 ,t-1 i1vx
          =
                   t=1              t=1

                   n                -1              n                               n                     n

                        y1,ty1 ,t          × 2        x¯ 2,t-1x1 ,t-1 +               y1,tx1 ,t-1            u2,tx1,t-1      i1vx

                   t=1                              t=1                           t=1                    t=1

where

       n                -1          n 1ivxx1,t-1x1 ,t-1i1vx      -1            1ivx -1        n                     -1   1ivx -1

            y1,ty1 ,t          =                                    =                                x1,t-1x1 ,t-1

       t=1                          t=1                                                       t=1

Therefore, we obtain that

            n           -1           n                           n             -1           n                           n           -1   n

ols =            y12,t      2           x¯ 2,t-1x1,t-1   i1vx +         y12,t                  y1,tx1 ,t-1  1ivx +           y12,t          u2,tx1 ,t-1

            t=1                     t=1                          t=1                       t=1                          t=1             t=1

Notice that the second term above becomes:

n           -1           n 1ivxx1,t-1x1,t-11ivx                   n 1ivxx1,t-1x1,t-11ivx -1                  n 1ivxx1,t-1x1 ,t-11ivx

     y12,t              t=1                              =       t=1                                        t=1                             =

t=1

Thus, we have that

                               n           -1       n                   1ivx +             n         -1     n

       ols -  =                     y12,t      2      x¯ 2,t-1x1,t-1                          y12,t           u2,tx1,t-1 i1vx.

                               t=1                  t=1                                t=1               t=1

                                                                 20
Furthermore, since the nonstationary regressors of node 1 are not correlated with the nonstationary

regressors of node 2, then the term plim                                n     u2,tx1 ,t-1     = 0, which implies that
                                                                     n  t=1

                n           -1       n

ols -  =             y12,t        2       x¯ 2,t-1x1,t-1 × i1vx

                t=1                  t=1                                                                                                            

                n           -1                                                                     n                     -1 n

          =          y12,t        2 E x2,t-1x1,t-1 × 1 +                                                 x¯ 1,t-1z1,t-1                   u¯1,tz1,t-1 

                t=1                                                                           t=1                                    t=1

                n           -1                                                             n                -1

          =          y12,t        2 E x2,t-1x1 ,t-1 1 +                                       y12,t             2 E x2,t-1x1,t-1

                t=1                                                     -1 n          t=1 

                               n

                   ×              x¯ 1,t-1z1,t-1                              u¯1,tz1,t-1  + op(1).

                            t=1                                         t=1

Since the term  n    y12,t  is always positive then we assume that plim                                                  n         y12,t  -1 = K where K
                t=1                                                                                     n                t=1

is some positive constant. Therefore, putting all related expressions together we obtain

n 1+z     ~ 2ivx - 2 - 1 = K2 E x2,t-1x1 ,t-1 1 + K2 E x2,t-1x1,t-1
       2

                                  × MN    0, u21 ×                      -1            CzV         C         -1
                                                                           u1u1                                u1 u1
                                                                                              Cz         z

                                  × MN    0, u21 ×                      -1            CzV         C         -1
                                                                           u1u1                                u1 u1
                                                                                              Cz         z

                            + MN        0, u22 ×                        -1          CzV           C      -1
                                                                           u2u2                             u2u2
                                                                                              Cz      z

                            = K2 E x2,t-1x1,t-1                                   1 × MN                 0, u21 ×        -1            CzV      C      -1
                            + K2 E x2,t-1x1,t-1                                                                             u1u1                          u1 u1
                                                                                                                                            Cz      z

                                                                                                                                                                 2

                                                                                  ×   MN              0, u21 ×           -1          CzV  Cz  C  z  -1
                                                                                                                             u1u1                      u1u1

                            + MN        0, u22 ×                        -1          CzV           C      -1           .
                                                                           u2u2                             u2u2
                                                                                              Cz      z

The second term above corresponds to a squared mixed Gaussian distribution which gives a form of
a 2 distribution. Thus, the limiting distribution of (4.1) is a linear combination of a 2 distribution
and a mixed Gaussian distribution, which is a Generalized 2 distribution. Thus the yt inherits

the properties of xt, through a cointegrating relation, especially our goal is to have a stationary
innovation sequence such that ut  I(0). Under the assumption of a consistent estimator for ^ols
then we have convergence in probability to zero such that ^ols -  p 0. Thus, the first term

of the expression asymptotically tends to zero (negligible) which implies that the second term

converges into a mixed Gaussian distribution.

                                                                              21
4 Doubly Corrected Estimation Method: Conditional Quantile Case

4.1 Estimation based on a Doubly IVX Corrected Procedure

     In this section we consider the double corrected conditional quantile estimation methodology which
     is the main focus of our research study. The derivations presented in the previous sections were
     useful to shed light on some challenges we have to overcome to develop a robust framework in the
     proposed setting of quantile predictive regression models. In terms of estimation approach we focus
     on the QR estimators under nonstationarity which are adjusted using the IVX filtration. During
     the first stage of the estimation procedure in the same spirit as several studies in the literature
     related to the joint estimation of the risk measures of (VaR, CoVaR) (see, Adrian and Brunnermeier
     (2016), Härdle et al. (2016) and Patton et al. (2019) among others), the VaR is estimated given a
     fixed quantile   (0, 1) level but using information on the nonstationary properties of regressors
     as given by the quantile predictive regression system below

Stage 1:

yt(1) = 1( ) + 1( )x(t-1)1 + u(t1)( ), for t = 1, ..., n                    (4.1)
x(t1) = R(n1)x(t-1)1 + v(t1)                                                (4.2)

             such that 1( )+( )x(t-1)1 is the  -conditional quantile of yt given xt-1, where the unknown
             parameters (1( ), 1( )) are estimated using the QR objective function.

Stage 2:

yt(2) = 2( ) + 2( )x(t-2)1 + ( )y1,t ^i1vx() + u(t2)( ), for t = 1, ..., n  (4.3)
x(t2) = R(n2)x(t-2)1 + v(t2)                                                (4.4)

       where the parameter of interest corresponds to the estimator invx = 2( ), 2 ( ), ( ) .

Remark 5. Similar to the remark found in Wang and Zhao (2016), we point out that it is up
to the practitioner to determine the specific model and parameter estimation method, which are
the starting point to carry out any subsequent CoVaR estimation and inference. In our study,
we use the nonstationary quantile predictive regression when obtaining an estimate for CoVaR.
Thus, our approach gives a n1+-consistent estimator for the unknown coefficient of systemic
risk based on the IVX filter. The particular optimization function corresponds to the second-stage
procedure which gives the model estimates to construct the one-period ahead forecasted CoVaR risk
measure. However, our approach differs from the estimation method of Adrian and Brunnermeier
(2016) and Härdle et al. (2016) since nonstationary time series data are modelled via the LUR
parametrization and thus we employ the QR-IVX estimator proposed by Lee (2016) but with the
additional generated regressor from the first-stage procedure.

22
Next, we focus on the required preliminary theory for establishing the consistency and asymptotic
mixed Gaussianity of the doubly IVX corrected estimator ivx(). Before proceeding with our
asymptotic theory analysis, it is worth mentioning some related studies on the aspect of generated
regressor in quantile regressions. In particular, in comparison to the framework of Bhattacharya
(2020) (see, also Chen et al. (2021)), our generated covariate represents a proxy for VaR under time
series nonstationarity. During the second-stage procedure this risk proxy is augmented within a
nonstationary quantile predictive regression along with other nonstationary regressors. In addition,
to ensure robustness to the abstract degree of persistence we employ the IVX estimator rather than
the OLS estimator thereby avoiding the necessity to use the control function approach as a method
for correcting size distortions under the null hypothesis of no predictability due to the presence
of the nuisance parameter of persistence. Moreover, similar to the illustrative case of the doubly
corrected estimation for the conditional mean case we present results for bivariate systems of
quantile predictive regression models.

Our econometric environment can be extended to the multivariate case. In that case, we can
develop asymptotic theory and estimation techniques for inference under two large-sample regimes
such that (a) with increasing time sample size, n  , and fixed network dimension, denoted by
m, and (b) with m   and nm  , where the temporal size depends on m. In other words,
the case in which both indices tend to infinity has certain challenges when deriving the asymptotic
properties or such complex tail dependent processes. To the best of our knowledge our study
tackles the problem of general asymptotic inference with increasing dimension network time series
models under nonstationarity which is a novel aspect to the literature. Suitable Bahadur-based
representations for establishing asymptotic theory results are considered in several studies (see,
Portnoy (2012) and Wang and Zhao (2016)). Within our setting we have the additional complexity
that the quantile-based estimators in each stage has to be robustify against the unknown persistence
properties that appear due to the LUR parametrization of regressors (e.g., see Lee (2016)).

In relation to technical conditions, the notion of stochastic equicontinuity can be employed in
nonstationary time series environments. These conditions are not uncommon in the cointe-
grating regression literature such as the restricted cointegrated regression model of Saikkonen
(1995) and the constrained least squares estimator proposed by Nagaraj and Fuller (1991) (see,
Moon and Schorfheide (2002)). Furthermore, as pointed out by Saikkonen (1995), the classical
stochastic equicontinuity conditions can be too strong in cointegrated regression models. In par-
ticular, due to the stationarity of the generated regressor we shall assume that the parameter space
in the nonstationary quantile predictive regression model in the second-stage procedure corresponds
to a short-run parameter while the coefficient of the nonstationary regressors corresponds to the
long-run parameters of the model. This can be done by partitioning  = (1, 2) and considering
a standardization matrix such that

Nn(1, ) = 1  1 : D1n (1 - 1) <  ,  (4.5)

23
where D1n is (k1 × k1) nonstochastic diagonal matrix whose diagonal elements are positive and
increasing functions of n. Moreover, these SE conditions are considered to be sufficient conditions

for establishing the weak convergence of such estimators while necessary conditions imply the

inverse information matrix has eigenvalues bounded away from zero in probability. Therefore, in

the case of integrated and cointegrated variables, Saikkonen (1995) show that the standardized
                       2Q¯n(0)
Hessian  matrix  D-n1           D-n1  converges  weakly  and  due  to  the  strict  exogeneity  assumption,

the weak limit is block diagonal between the parameters 1,  and . The next step would be to

show that the standardized Hessian satisfies an appropriate stochastic equicontinuity condition,

that along with a suitable consistency result, makes it possible to obtain the limiting distribution.

Roughly speaking, OLS-based residuals from the first-stage procedure depend on the nuisance

parameter of persistence thus stochastic equicontinuity arguments need to be extended to a suitable

probability space that accounts for dynamic misspecification (see, Kasparis and Phillips (2012)).

Proposition 1. Suppose that the parameter vector of interest is given by the optimization function

                 () :=      ^(), ^ x(), ^ y^()   arg min           n                            (4.6)

                                                                      yt - X t
                                                          t=1

where Xt = 1, xt-1, y^t . Assume that the matrix D0 exists and is positive definite, then as
N, T   for any quantile level   (0, 1), the following limit results holds

         ^ (·) - 0(·)  d D1NT (·)-1GN   (i - xi0(·))          + op(1)  GN (·)  (T ),            (4.7)
  N

where G(·) is a zero mean Gaussian process with covariance kernel E G(1)G(2) such that
T := [1, 2]. Recall that the weak convergence result holds because the stochastic process is
asymptotically tight, and, therefore, converge weakly in L, where L denotes the set of all

uniformly bounded real functions on  equipped with the uniform norm.

A special case to the weak convergence result given by expression (4.7) is to consider the weak
convergence of the quantile regression process ^ (·), where for any fixed quantile level   (0, 1) it

holds that as (N, T )  ,

                            ^ () - 0()  d N          0, (1 - )D1D0-1D1      .
                         N

Define with G() is a zero mean Gaussian process with covariance kernel

                       E G()G() = ()-1()S(, )()-1()D-0 1.                                       (4.8)

                                                 24
Remark 6. Recall that a key condition for estimating the quantile-dependent cointegrating vector
is that there exists a zero correlation between regressors and errors (see, Xiao (2009)). Moreover,
cases where estimators are derived under the assumption large N, T asymptotics include the frame-
works of Zhu et al. (2019), Chen (2022) and Feng et al. (2024) among others. Nevertheless, the
above derivations provide a good example on the possible system representation we can employ
in the case we consider the generated regressors that correspond to the estimated VaR (under
time series nonstationarity) across the cross-section. The above example which corresponds to the
ARDL process as in the study of Cho et al. (2015) is presented also by Katsouris (2023a).

Example 2 (see, Cho et al. (2015)). Consider the ARDL process denoted by

                                           p                  q

                   Yt =  + j Yt-j + j Xt-j + Ut,

                                          j=1                 j=0

where Xt  Rk is a k-dimensional integrated process of stationary and ergodic processes. More-
over, let the  -quantile of Yt conditional on the -algebra Ft-1 denoted by Qyt( |Ft-1) be

                                                     p                        q

              Qyt( |Ft-1) = ( ) + j( )Yt-j + j ( )Xt-j

                                                     j=1                    j=0

We consider that Yt is represented as a quantile autoregressive distributed lag (QARDL) process

                                               p                       q

Qyt ( |Ft-1) = ( ) + j( )Yt-j + j ( )Xt-j + Ut( )                                                                    (4.9)

                                              j=1                   j=0

where Ut( ) = Yt - Qyt( |Ft-1). We reformulate the above expression so that it can capture the
long-run relationship between Yt and Xt using the following long-run quantile process

                               Yt      =  µ(      )  +  X     (  )  +  Rt( )                                         (4.10)
                                                           t

We explain below the steps and the coefficients to obtain the above reformulation.

Step 1. We decompose the term  q    j ( )Xt-j              Xt ( )      +         q-1  Z       ()  which     implies  that
                               j=0                                               j=0     t-j

                                    p                                       q-1

              Yt = ( ) +               j( )Yt-j + Xt ( ) +                          Z        ()  +Ut  (  )
                                                                                        t-j

                               j=1                                          j=0

                                                                       q         (  )X  t-j
                                                                       j=0    j

where ( ) :=  q    j( ),       ( )     :=  -         q        i( )  and     Zt      =   X t .
              j=0                                    i=j+1

                                                        25
Step 2. Suppose that

                      p                                  q-1

Yt = ( ) +                 j( )Yt-j + Xt( ) +                  Z        ()    +Ut( )        µ( )  +  Xt (    )  +  Rt( )
                                                                   t-j

                      j=1                                j=0

                                                    q    j  (  )X  t-j
                                                    j=0

where it holds that

                           ( ) :=  ( )  ,                          µ( ) :=  ( )                                    (4.11)
                                                        p                                       p
                                      1 - j( )                               1 - j( )
                                                      j=1                                     j=1

and the remainder term can be written such that

                                                                         
                                                       t-j
                           Rt( ) :=                 Z       j  (   )  +       j( )Ut-j( )

                                           j=0                           j=0

where each j( ) corresponds to the "upper" unbounded sum of some positive sequence of co-

efficients ( ) such that j( )                          (       )   where   the  set  of  coefficients     0( ), 1( ), ...
                                           =j+1

and 0( ), 1( ), ... which implies that

                                                                   -1

                                                 p

                           j( )Lj  1 - j( )Lj ,

                      j=0                  j=1         q                                                

                                                                                         q

                                    (1  -  L)-1             j=0    j( )Lj       -       j=0  j( )         .

                          j( )Lj                         1  -      p                 1  -    p       )

                      j=0                                            j( )Lj                    j (

                                                               j=1                          j=1

Our main interest lie in developing the estimation theory for the long-run parameter ( )
which is a function of ( ) and j := 1( ), ..., p( ) .

In a similar spirit as in the illustrative example above in which the an invertible representation of
the ARDL exists, we consider that our proposed econometric specification which corresponds to
an augmented quantile predictive regression model with generated regressors, could be modified
accordingly using equivalent type of representations. We leave some derivations for a future study.
On the other hand, we should emphasize again that the generated covariates we consider in our
setting are allows to be possibly related to different observable variables in different functional
forms. Nevertheless, these GR equations can be estimated separately (i.e., estimation of the main
diagonal of the risk matrix in Katsouris (2021)), and thus any dependence between the GRs can
be captured by the variance covariance matrix (this separation of the proxy risk measures of VaR
is also reflected in the novel two-step estimation approach proposed by Katsouris (2021)).

                                                         26
4.2 Misspecification Analysis of VaR-CoVaR risk matrix

In order to obtain some further insights in the implications of the theoretical aspects discussed in
this paper, we briefly discuss the extension of the framework proposed by Katsouris (2023b) into
the econometric environment of this study. Suppose that yit is generated by the true adjacency
matrix A (e.g., consider the novel VaR - CoVaR risk matrix proposed by Katsouris (2021) as the
network adjacency matrix). Related studies from the literature of network regression estimation
and inference include Zhu et al. (2017), Zhu et al. (2019) and Zhu and Pan (2020) among others).

Roughly speaking, the consistency result for the population counterpart of the risk matrix might
not be held when the adjacency matrix A is misspecified to be A = aij . Denote with W  to be
the row-normalized A and Xit to be the matrix of model regressors. Then, the estimator is

             ^ () = arg min N               T         yit  -  X          ()  .                    (4.12)
                                                                 (i)t-1
                                               
                                i=1 t=1

Define with

                            1  NT           (i)t-1 X  
                           NT                         (i)t-1
             D0         =               X                     ,                                   (4.13)
                                                                                                  (4.14)
                               i=1 t=1

             D1() =         1   NT          X          ()        X  (i)t-1X           .
                           NT                  (i)t-1                        (i)t-1
                                       fit

                               i=1 t=1

Remark 7. Notice that for the VaR-CoVaR risk matrix, misspecification has a different interpre-
tation than for the usual binary or weighted adjacency matrix for a graph. The reason is that
our risk matrix is constructed based on tail forecasts using a regression-based methodology that
incorporates the persistence properties of the regressors (see, Katsouris (2021, 2023b)).

The conditions associated with the misspecified coefficients are listed below:

Assumption 6. (Eigenvalue-Bound) Suppose that D1() p D1() as min {N, T }   for any
  (0, 1), where D1()  RN×N is a positive definite matrix. Then, there exists positive constants,
0 < c1 < c2 <  such that c1  min (D1())  max (D1())  c2 for any fixed   (0, 1).

Assumption 7. (Monotonicity) It is assumed that X(i)t-1() such that 1  i  N and
1  t  T is a monotone increasing function with respect to   (0, 1).

Corollary 1. Define with d (W , W ) = wij - wij to be the total amount of misspecification

                                                                                i,t

of W . Then, we have that

             ^ () - ()         1   {D1()}-1      NT              
                              NT                                 (i)t-1
                        =  -                                  X            (E it)  +  RN T  () ,  (4.15)

                                                 i=1 t=1

with sup RNT () = op (N T )-1/2 .

                                            27
Denote with

E(i)t() :=   y(i)t     -  X          ()       and  Sin ()        :=  1   n        E (i)t ()  X (i)t-1.
                             (i)t-1                                  n  t=1

Moreover, assuming that the amount of misspecification has a bounded convergence rate such
that d (W , W ) = op N/T , then we have that ^ () - () = op N/T . Consequently,
it can be shown that when the misspecification amount is under control, that is, d (W , W ) =
Op N/T , the resulting estimator is still NT -consistent.

Proof. We divide the proof into two parts. In the first part of the proof, we show the representation
given by expression (4.15) while in the second part we show the consistency result for ^ (). Denote
with  () = ^ () - (). Then, we have that

                          yit - X (i)t-1^ ()       =   E  it  -  X            ()  .                     (4.16)
                                                                    (i)t-1

where Eit = yit - X(i)t-1(). Then, the minimization of (4.16) is equivalent to minimizing for
a fixed   (0, 1) such that

             ZNo T (, ) = (N T )-1   NT        Vit - (N T )-1/2 Xi(t-1) -  (Vit) .

                                                                                                        (4.17)

                                     i=1 t=1

A process WNT () is said to be tight if and only if for any  > 0 there exists a compact set E with

                                     sup P WNT ()  E > 1 - .                                            (4.18)

                                     E

Proof. We define with

                          1(D)  =    -1            2 (Vit2 ) - 1 (Vit1 )                                (4.19)
                                          NT
                                              i,t

for any interval D = (1, 2]. Therefore, to show the tightness property, we adopt Theorem
15.6 from Billingsley (1968) and prove a sufficient Chentsov-Billingsley type of inequality (see,
Bickel and Wichura (1971)) as follows.

Lemma 1. For any two intervals D1 = (1, 2] and D2 = (2, 3] we have that

                          E 1(D1) 2 1(D2) 2  C(3 - 1),                                                  (4.20)

where C is a finite positive constant (see, Appendix of Zhu et al. (2019)).

                                                   28
Moreover, we denote with it (, ) :=  (Vit) -  (Vit) for two quantile levels,  and . Then,
since E [it (, ) |Ft-1] = 0, using the Cauchy's inequality we can derive an appropriate bound

                                                         2                                    2

                  E  Xi(t-1)it (1, 2)  Xi(t-1)it (2, 3)  

                         i,t                                        i,t

                                                                        4                              4

                             E  Xi(t-1)it (1, 2)                             E  Xi(t-1)it (3, 4) .

                                    i,t                                        i,t

Therefore, it holds that

E    X            -1)i1  t1  (,  )         X             -1)i2  t2  (,  )    Xi3(t3-1)i3t3 (, )  Xi4(t4-1)i4t4 (, )
           i1(t1                                 i2 (t2

is non-zero only if (a) i1 = i2, t1 = t2 and i3 = i4 = i1, t3 = t4 = t1 or (b) i1 = i2 = i3 = i4 and

t1 = t2 = t3 = t4. Then, it can be shown that

                                                         4

   (N T )-2 E  Xi(t-1)it (1, 2)  =

                    i,t

                                                                        2                                            
                                                                                                                     
                                 Xi(t-1)   2 i2t (1, 2)                  + (N T )-2           Xi(t-1)  4 i4t (1, 2)
     (N T )-2  E                                                                           E                         .
                         i,t
                                                                                      i,t

Notice that we have that E Xit 2 = Op(1) and E Xit 4 = Op(1). Moreover, it can be easily
verified that E [i2t (1, 2)]  1 -2 and E [i4t (1, 2)]  1 -2. By combining the aforementioned
results together we obtain

                  E 1(D1) 2 1(D2) 2  C(2 - 1)(3 - 2)  C |3 - 1| ,                                                    (4.21)

for some positive constant C. We can then conclude that the stochastic quantity 1() converge
weakly to a (q + 1)-dimensional Brownian Bridge.

                                                                         29
5 Conclusion

We study estimation and inference for nonstationary quantile predictive regression models when
a generated covariate is required for the purposed of estimating pairs of risk measures under
time series nontationarity. In We discuss the main estimation steps of the proposed modeling
methodology and provide an asymptotic theory analysis for the associated quantile-dependent
model estimators under regressors nonstationarity which is captured via the LUR parametrization.
We propose a two-stage estimation procedure, where the generated regressor that corresponds to
the one-step ahead prediction of VaR based on persistent data is generated in the first stage of
the estimation procedure. In the second-stage of the estimation procedure the two-stage estimator
is employed to construct the one-step ahead prediction of CoVaR based on the estimated VaR
and another set of persistent data not necessarily identical to the first-stage estimation procedure.
We investigate the asymptotic properties of the two-stage estimator based on quantile predictive
regression models. Moreover, we show that accounting for the presence of generated regressors
when obtaining forecasts of the pair (VaR, CoVaR), based on the proposed two-stage estimation
procedure, results in improved statistical testing after adjusting the variance-covariance matrix to
account for the estimation error in the first-stage estimation procedure.
In a further study we consider the econometric identification and estimation of a novel SUR
representation that corresponds to the system-specific quantile predictive regressions as proposed
by Katsouris (2021, 2023a,b). Specifically, modelling tail interdependencies in a network using
the SUR representation provides efficiency gains and permits to implement relevant statistical
inference methods especially when regressors are assumed to be generated from a LUR process.

Conflicts of interest The author declares that there are no known conflicts of interest.

Data availability No data was used for the research described in this article.

Acknowledgements This article is based on the first chapter of my doctoral thesis which was
submitted to the University of Southampton (see, Katsouris (2021), Katsouris (2023b), Katsouris
(2023a)). I wish to thank Professor Dr. Jose Olmo, Professor Dr. Tassos Magdalinos and Dr.
Jayeeta Bhattacharya from the Department of Economics, University of Southampton for helpful
conversations and comments that significantly improve this paper as well as Professor Dr. Markku
Lanne and Professor Dr. Mika Meitz from the Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Helsinki. I
also sincerely thank Dr. Ji Hyung Lee for generously sharing the replication code for the IVX-QR
procedure which has been adapted in this article. Financial support from the Research Council of
Finland (grant 347986) is gratefully acknowledged. All remaining errors are my own responsibility.

                                                             30
6 Appendix

6.1 Appendix A: Auxiliary Results

Theorem 1. (see Theorem 2 in Kato (2009)) Suppose fn(x, ) with n  1 are convex in x for each

  and  bounded  in    for  each  x.  Moreover,  let  gn(x, )  =  -xWn() +      1  x  Q()x,  where  {Wn(.)}  is
                                                                               2

a sequence of bounded stochastic processes and Q() is a d × d non-stochastic symmetric positive

definite matrix for each . Suppose that the maximum eigenvalue of Q() is bounded from above

and the minimum eigenvalue of Q() is bounded away from 0 over   B. If it holds that

                                            sup |fn(x, ) - gn(x, )| p 0,                           (6.1)

                                                                   B

for each x and of for every  > 0, there exists a constant M > 0 such that

                                     lim sup P sup Wn() > M  ,                                     (6.2)
                                     n
                                                B

then xn() = {Q()}-1 Wn() + rn(), where supB rn() = op(1).

Proof. Let yn() = {Q()}-1 Wn(), which is the unique minimum point of gn(., ) for each .
Then, it can be shown that

       gn(x, )      -  gn  (yn(), )  =  1  (x  -  yn())  Qn()    (x  -  yn())     c  x - yn()  ,   (6.3)
                                        2

for some constant c > 0. Denote with

                           n = sup sup |fn(x, ) - gn(x, )| .                                       (6.4)
                                       B x: x-yn() 

Therefore, letting rn() = xn() - yn(), we have that P sup rn() >   P (n  (c2)/2).
                                                                                                                   B

So it suffices to show that n p 0. Let  > 0 be an arbitrary positive constant. Take M > 0 such
that the following bound holds

                                     lim sup P sup yn() > M  .                                     (6.5)
                                     n
                                                B

Define K := {x : x - y  , y  M} = {x : x   + M}. Then, for every  > 0,

       P (n > )  P sup sup fn(x, ) - gn(x, ) >  + P sup yn() > M .                                 (6.6)

                                 B xK                                   B

                                                     31
Since by Lemma 1, we have that

sup sup  fn(x, ) - gn(x, )      = sup sup        fn(x,  )  +  xWn()   -  1  xQ()x                                      p 0,  (6.7)
                                                                         2
B xK                                B xK

We can conclude that lim supP (n > )  . Since  > 0 is arbitrary, then the proof ends.
                                              n

The theoretical results presented by Kato (2009) are useful when considering equivalent maximiza-
tion functionals which can be suitably modified when establishing the asymptotic theory of sample
moments in the case of nonstationary quantile predictive regressions (e.g., see, Cai et al. (2023)).

Denote the conditional CDF of Y given X = x by FY |X(·|x) and its conditional quantile at   (0, 1)
by Q(|x), such that Q(|x) = FY-|1X(|x) = inf s : FY |X(s|x)   . Suppose that the quantile
Q(|x) is modelled as a general nonlinear function of x and . We fix x and treat Q(|x) as a
stochastic process in , where   T = [1, 2] with 0 < 1  2 < 1.

Furthermore, it can be shown that ^() - () = Op(n-1/2) uniformly in   [, 1 - ] for any
  (0, 1/2). Then, the computational property of regression quantile processes is employed to
derive the uniform asymptotic representation of n1/2 ^() - () . Notice also that the functional
class is P-Donsker for any B  Rp

         g(y, x) =  - I(y  x) xj,   B,   [, 1 - ], 1  j  p                                                                   (6.8)

In other words, a key quantity for establishing  asymptotic   theory  and inferential methods is the
regression-quantile process such that M n()         n n()     - ()       for some   (0, 1) which is

regarded as a stochastic process in the space D[0, 1] d of Rd-valued right-continuous functions

with left-hand limits on [0, 1] (see, Goh and Knight (2009), Kato (2009) and Portnoy (2012)11).

Definition 1. (Weak Uniform Convergence on )[see, (White, 1996, p. 26)] Let (, F , P) be a
probability space. Then, Qn(·, ) - Q¯n()  0 as n   in probability law uniformly on  if for

any  > 0 and any  > 0 there exists an integer N(, ) <  such that for all n > N(, ) then

         P sup Qn(·, ) - Q¯n() <  > 1 - .                                                                                    (6.9)
                

Remark 8. If Qn and Q¯n are vector or matrix valued functions then we use identical terminol-
ogy to mean that uniform convergence holds element by element. Moreover, the assumption of

compactness of  is crucial since it ensures that the supremum of  exists and that the functions
sup Qn(·, ) - Q¯n() are measurable (see, Saikkonen (1995)).

 

11To establish the limiting behaviour of such stochastic processes several studies in the literature employ the

Bahadur representation which holds uniformly in  and   (0, 1). Moreover, estimating the parameter  induces
                                                                                                                     
some important changes compared to a known 0 and required finding an expansion for n                                   (; ) - (; )  .

                                                 32
In the remaining of this section, we borrow some relevant results from the framework proposed
by Bhattacharya (2020) (see Appendix of the paper). Within our framework the auxiliary results
briefly discussed above can be useful to derive error bounds to establish the order of convergence
of remainder terms when implementing a Bahadur representation to quantile-based functionals.
Specifically, Bhattacharya (2020) considers the asymptotic behaviour of the following functional

                                                      -  H-1 (; ) S (; )           .               (6.10)
          E (; ) = n  (; ) -  (; )

A uniform order for E (; ) relies on a uniform order study for the remainder term which crucially
depends on the properties of the quantile regression of interest. To do this, one can employ concepts
of maximal inequality under bracketing conditions as given in the related literature as well as other
linearization techniques (e.g., see Goh and Knight (2009), Kato (2009) and Brian (2021)).

In particular, it holds that for any   (0, 1)

                                    () - ()        d N   0, V ()    .                              (6.11)
                     n

Following the derivations in Proposition 1 of Bhattacharya (2020), it yields that

                                                            
     n  ;  - (; 0) = n (; ) - (; ) + n (; ) - (; 0)

                                                         +  (; 0)        +  Op(1)     
                   = n (; ) - (; )                                                      n  - 0

                                                         (; 0)           1n    n
                   = n (; ) - (; )                                            i=1
                                                                                   (Zi)  +  Op(1)

Therefore, it can be proved that

                                                      (; 0)         1n    n
  n                                                                      i=1
      ;   - (; 0)  = H-1            ;   S      ;   +                          (Zi)    +  Op(1).    (6.12)

Lemma 2 (Bhattacharya (2020)). Suppose that regularity conditions hold. Then, the following
inequalities and unique representations can be derived.

 (i) Q(2)(; , ) is continuous with respect to its three arguments, with                            (6.13)
                                     Q(2) 1; ,  - Q(2) 0; ,   C 1 - 2

      for all 0 and 1,    and   [0, 1].
(ii) Q(2)(; , ) is strictly positive for all   B(),   B() and   [0, 1].

                                                            33
(iii) For    and   [0, 1] has a unique minimizer (; ) which is continuously diffable in 

                                      (; )         =  H(; )-1D(; ),                                          (6.14)
                                                                                                             (6.15)

                                      (; )         =  H(; )-1E [X()]
                                         

where H(; ) and D(; ) are defined above.

Consider a uniform order study of the Bahadur error term such that

                                                                -    H-1 (; ) S (; )                         (6.16)
                                 E (; ) = n  (; ) -  (; )

   sup                           E (; ) = Op  log3/4n     .                                                  (6.17)
                                               n1/4
(,)[1 ,2 ]×

Define the following optimization function

                            n    Yt() - Xt()       +    (;   )  -  Yt() - Xt() (; )                          , (6.18)
                                                n
Ln (, ; ) =

                          t=1

This implies that a unique minimizer can be established given by the expression below                        (6.19)
                                 
                                   n  (; ) -  (; ) = arg min Ln (, ; ) .

                                                                                                           

Relevant studies with the topological convergence as well as existence and uniqueness proofs are
mentioned in the Appendix of Katsouris (2022) (see, also Kato (2009)). Thus, following the ar-
gumentation in Bhattacharya (2020) a uniform order for E (; ) relies on a uniform order study
for the remainder term R , , ;  . To do this, one can employ concepts of maximal inequality
under bracketing conditions as given in the related literature as well as other linearisation tech-
niques. There are two techniques commonly used in the literature; the bracketing and set covering
approach as presented by Bhattacharya (2020) and the partitioning approach presented in several
studies (see, Brian (2021) and Goh and Knight (2009)). The remainder term can be expressed as

                                                                                               n             (6.20)

   Rn (, , ; ) = Ln (, , ; ) - L0n (, , ; ) = Rt (, , ; )

                                                                                             t=1

Lemma 3 (Bhattacharya (2020)). For real numbers t and t > 0 with t  1, t = t log3/4n /n1/4
for some t > 0, such that (t + t)1/2 /t  O n1/4/log1/2n , for large n,

E                                sup               R1n , , ;      C  log1/2n  t(t  +  t)1/2.                 (6.21)
                                                                      n1/4
   (,,;)B(0,t )×B(0,t)×[1,2]×

                                                      34
Example 3. In this example, we discuss the econometric framework of Chen et al. (2021), who
consider quantile regression with generated regressors. Denote with Ft (u|xt), the conditional
distribution function of the error term with continuous densities ft (u|xt) and a unique conditional
-th quantile which are uniformly bounded away from 0 and . It holds that

                                             ^ -                         n                                  (6.22)
                                      n
                                                        = n-1/2 rt() + op(1)

                                                                       t=1

where rt(·) is a continuous function which satisfies E [rt()] = 0 and Var[rt()] = V and thus the

generated  regressor  has  the      form  1  n      x^ tx^ t   -   1     n    xtxt   =  op(1).
                                          n  t=1                   n     t=1

Moreover, for any fixed   (0, 1), we have the following results

                                             ^ () - ()                 d N     0, () .                      (6.23)
                                         n

Under the null hypothesis, it holds that

                                             R^ () - r             d N      0, R()R .                       (6.24)
                                      n

Then, since we proved that ^ () is a consistent estimator of (), by Slutsky's theorem,

                      WT = T R() - r  R()R -1 R() - r  q2.                                                  (6.25)

Using the mean value expansion theorem we have that

              1   n              =  1   n               1       n    h    (wt,  )    ut  ^ -  + op(1).      (6.26)
              n                     n                   n      t=1
                     x^ t ut               xtut +

                 t=1                   t=1

Since we have that E (u|w) = 0 and E h (wt, ) ut = op(1). Furthermore, since ^- = op(1)
and E (xtut) = 0, it follows that

                                    1   n           =  1        n        +    op(1)  =  op(1).              (6.27)
                                    n                  n
                                           x^ t ut                 xtut

                                       t=1                     t=1

Therefore, it can be proved that ^ - 0 = op(1) and the asymptotic normality of the OLS-GR
estimator can be also established. In particular, we have that

                                          1   n                -1     1n   n
                n                         n  t=1                          t=1
                      ^ - 0         =               x^ t x^ t                  x^ t  (xt - x^ t) 0 + ut  ,

                                    = H-1           1n   n     x^ t   (xt - x^t) 0 + ut
                                                        t=1

where H =  1  n       x^ t x^ t  .
           n  t=1

                                                                   35
References

Adrian, T. and Brunnermeier, M. K. (2016). Covar. The American Economic Review, 106(7):1705.
Beutner, E., Heinemann, A., and Smeekes, S. (2024). A residual bootstrap for conditional value-

  at-risk. Journal of Econometrics, 238(2):105554.
Bhattacharya, J. (2020). Quantile regression with generated dependent variable and covariates.

  arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.13614.
Bickel, P. J. and Wichura, M. J. (1971). Convergence criteria for multiparameter stochastic pro-

  cesses and some applications. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 42(5):1656­1670.
Billingsley, P. (1968). Convergence of probability measures. John Wiley & Sons.
Billio, M., Getmansky, M., Lo, A. W., and Pelizzon, L. (2012). Econometric measures of connect-

  edness and systemic risk in the finance and insurance sectors. Journal of financial economics,
  104(3):535­559.
Breitung, J. and Demetrescu, M. (2015). Instrumental variable and variable addition based infer-
  ence in predictive regressions. Journal of Econometrics, 187(1):358­375.
Brian, W. (2021). Covering versus partitioning with polish spaces. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2101.10088.
Buchmann, B. and Chan, N. H. (2007). Asymptotic theory of least squares estimators for nearly
  unstable processes under strong dependence. The Annals of statistics, 35(5):2001­2017.
Cai, Z., Chen, H., and Liao, X. (2023). A new robust inference for predictive quantile regression.
  Journal of Econometrics, 234(1):227­250.
Cai, Z. and Wang, Y. (2014). Testing predictive regression models with nonstationary regressors.
  Journal of Econometrics, 178:4­14.
Chan, N. H. and Zhang, R. (2013). Marked empirical processes for non-stationary time series.
  Bernoulli, 19(5A):2098­2119.
Chen, L. (2022). Two-step estimation of quantile panel data models with interactive fixed effects.
  Econometric Theory, pages 1­28.
Chen, L., Galvao, A. F., and Song, S. (2021). Quantile regression with generated regressors.
  Econometrics, 9(2):16.
Chen, W., Hribar, P., and Melessa, S. (2023). Standard error biases when using generated regressors
  in accounting research. Journal of accounting research, 61(2):531­569.
Cho, J. S., Kim, T.-h., and Shin, Y. (2015). Quantile cointegration in the autoregressive
  distributed-lag modeling framework. Journal of econometrics, 188(1):281­300.
De Jong, R. M. (2001). Nonlinear estimation using estimated cointegrating relations. Journal of
  econometrics, 101(1):109­122.
Demetrescu, M. (2014). Enhancing the local power of ivx-based tests in predictive regressions.
  Economics Letters, 124(2):269­273.
Demetrescu, M. and Rodrigues, P. M. (2020). Residual-augmented ivx predictive regression. Jour-
  nal of Econometrics.

                                                             36
Dickey, D. A. and Fuller, W. A. (1981). Likelihood ratio statistics for autoregressive time series
  with a unit root. Econometrica: journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1057­1072.

Diebold, F. X. and Yilmaz, K. (2012). Better to give than to receive: Predictive directional
  measurement of volatility spillovers. International Journal of Forecasting, 28(1):57­66.

Diebold, F. X. and Yilmaz, K. (2014). On the network topology of variance decompositions:
  Measuring the connectedness of financial firms. Journal of Econometrics, 182(1):119­134.

Dimitriadis, T., Fissler, T., and Ziegel, J. (2022). Characterizing m-estimators. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2208.08108.

Dimitriadis, T. and Hoga, Y. (2022). Dynamic co-quantile regression. arXiv preprint
  arXiv:2206.14275.

Doran, H. E. and Griffiths, W. E. (1983). On the relative efficiency of estimators which include
  the initial observations in the estimation of seemingly unrelated regressions with first-order
  autoregressive disturbances. Journal of Econometrics, 23(2):165­191.

Duffy, J. A. and Kasparis, I. (2021). Estimation and inference in the presence of fractional d= 1/2
  and weakly nonstationary processes. The Annals of Statistics, 49(2):1195­1217.

Dufour, J.-M. and Jasiak, J. (2001). Finite sample limited information inference methods for
  structural equations and models with generated regressors. International Economic Review,
  42(3):815­844.

Fan, R. and Lee, J. H. (2019). Predictive quantile regressions under persistence and conditional
  heteroskedasticity. Journal of Econometrics, 213(1):261­280.

Fang, Z., Li, Q., and Yan, K. X. (2023). A simple nonparametric approach for estimation and
  inference of conditional quantile functions. Econometric Theory, 39(2):290­320.

Feng, X., Li, W., and Zhu, Q. (2024). Estimation and bootstrapping under spatiotemporal models
  with unobserved heterogeneity. Journal of Econometrics, 238(1):105559.

Fissler, T. and Hoga, Y. (2023). Backtesting systemic risk forecasts using multi-objective elic-
  itability. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, (just-accepted):1­30.

Fissler, T. and Ziegel, J. F. (2016). Higher order elicitability and osbands principle. The Annals
  of Statistics, 44(4):1680­1707.

Francq, C. and Zakoïan, J.-M. (2015). Risk-parameter estimation in volatility models. Journal of
  Econometrics, 184(1):158­173.

Francq, C. and Zakoian, J.-M. (2023). Local asymptotic normality of general conditionally het-
  eroskedastic and score-driven time-series models. Econometric Theory, 39(5):1067­1092.

Frongillo, R. M. and Kash, I. A. (2021). Elicitation complexity of statistical properties. Biometrika,
  108(4):857­879.

Ghosh, S. and Tan, Z. (2022). Doubly robust semiparametric inference using regularized calibrated
  estimation with high-dimensional data. Bernoulli, 28(3):1675­1703.

Goh, S. C. and Knight, K. (2009). Nonstandard quantile-regression inference. Econometric Theory,
  25(5):1415­1432.

Hahn, J. and Ridder, G. (2013). Asymptotic variance of semiparametric estimators with generated

                                                             37
  regressors. Econometrica, 81(1):315­340.
Härdle, W. K., Wang, W., and Yu, L. (2016). Tenet: Tail-event driven network risk. Journal of

  Econometrics, 192(2):499­513.
He, Y., Hou, Y., Peng, L., and Shen, H. (2020). Inference for conditional value-at-risk of a

  predictive regression. The Annals of Statistics, 48(6):3442­3464.
Hoffman, D. L. (1987). Two-step generalized least squares estimators in multi-equation generated

  regressor models. The Review of Economics and Statistics, pages 336­346.
Hoga, Y. (2023). The estimation risk in extreme systemic risk forecasts. arXiv preprint

  arXiv:2304.10349.
Hsiao, C. (1997). Statistical properties of the two-stage least squares estimator under cointegration.

  The Review of Economic Studies, 64(3):385­398.
Jansson, M. and Moreira, M. J. (2006). Optimal inference in regression models with nearly inte-

  grated regressors. Econometrica, 74(3):681­714.
Kasparis, I. and Phillips, P. C. (2012). Dynamic misspecification in nonparametric cointegrating

  regression. Journal of Econometrics, 168(2):270­284.
Kato, K. (2009). Asymptotics for argmin processes: Convexity arguments. Journal of Multivariate

  Analysis, 100(8):1816­1829.
Katsouris, C. (2021). Optimal portfolio choice and stock centrality for tail risk events. arXiv

  preprint arXiv:2112.12031.
Katsouris, C. (2022). Asymptotic theory for moderate deviations from the unit boundary in

  quantile autoregressive time series. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.02073.
Katsouris, C. (2023a). Quantile time series regression models revisited. arXiv preprint

  arXiv:2308.06617.
Katsouris, C. (2023b). Statistical estimation for covariance structures with tail estimates using

  nodewise quantile predictive regression models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.11282.
Katsouris, C. (2023c). Structural break detection in quantile predictive regression models with

  persistent covariates. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.05193.
Katsouris, C. (2023d). Unified inference for dynamic quantile predictive regression. arXiv preprint

  arXiv:2309.14160.
Koenker, R. and Bassett, G. (1978). Regression quantiles. Econometrica: journal of the Econo-

  metric Society, pages 33­50.
Koenker, R. and Xiao, Z. (2004). Unit root quantile autoregression inference. Journal of the

  American statistical association, 99(467):775­787.
Kostakis, A., Magdalinos, T., and Stamatogiannis, M. P. (2015). Robust econometric inference for

  stock return predictability. The Review of Financial Studies, 28(5):1506­1553.
Kulperger, R., Yu, H., et al. (2005). High moment partial sum processes of residuals in garch

  models and their applications. The Annals of Statistics, 33(5):2395­2422.
Lee, J. H. (2016). Predictive quantile regression with persistent covariates: Ivx-qr approach.

  Journal of Econometrics, 192(1):105­118.

                                                             38
Lin, W. and Taamouti, A. (2023). Portfolio selection under non-gaussianity and systemic risk: A
  machine learning based forecasting approach. International Journal of Forecasting.

Liu, X., Long, W., Peng, L., and Yang, B. (2023). A unified inference for predictive quantile
  regression. Journal of the American Statistical Association, pages 1­15.

Liu, Y. and Phillips, P. C. (2023). Robust inference with stochastic local unit root regressors in
  predictive regressions. Journal of Econometrics, 235(2):563­591.

Magdalinos, T. (2020). Least squares and ivx limit theory in systems of predictive regressions with
  garch innovations. Econometric Theory.

Magdalinos, T. and Petrova, K. (2022). Uniform and distribution-free inference with general au-
  toregressive processes. Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Department of Economics and Business.

Martins-Filho, C., Yao, F., and Torero, M. (2018). Nonparametric estimation of conditional value-
  at-risk and expected shortfall based on extreme value theory. Econometric Theory, 34(1):23­67.

Meitz, M. and Saikkonen, P. (2023). Subgeometrically ergodic autoregressions with autoregressive
  conditional heteroskedasticity. Econometric Theory (forthcoming).

Mikusheva, A. (2012). One-dimensional inference in autoregressive models with the potential
  presence of a unit root. Econometrica, 80(1):173­212.

Moon, H. R. and Schorfheide, F. (2002). Minimum distance estimation of nonstationary time series
  models. Econometric Theory, 18(6):1385­1407.

Nagaraj, N. K. and Fuller, W. A. (1991). Estimation of the parameters of linear time series models
  subject to nonlinear restrictions. The Annals of Statistics, pages 1143­1154.

Newey, W. K. (1994). The asymptotic variance of semiparametric estimators. Econometrica:
  Journal of the Econometric Society, pages 1349­1382.

Oxley, L. and McAleer, M. (1993). Econometric issues in macroeconomic models with generated
  regressors. Journal of Economic Surveys, 7(1):1­40.

Pagan, A. (1984). Econometric issues in the analysis of regressions with generated regressors.
  International Economic Review, pages 221­247.

Patton, A. J., Ziegel, J. F., and Chen, R. (2019). Dynamic semiparametric models for expected
  shortfall (and value-at-risk). Journal of Econometrics, 211(2):388­413.

Phillips, P. C. B. (1987a). Time series regression with a unit root. Econometrica: Journal of the
  Econometric Society, pages 277­301.

Phillips, P. C. B. (1987b). Towards a unified asymptotic theory for autoregression. Biometrika,
  74(3):535­547.

Phillips, P. C. B. and Magdalinos, T. (2007). Limit theory for moderate deviations from a unit
  root. Journal of Econometrics, 136(1):115­130.

Phillips, P. C. B. and Magdalinos, T. (2009). Econometric inference in the vicinity of unity.
  Singapore Management University, CoFie Working Paper, 7.

Phillips, P. C. B. and Solo, V. (1992). Asymptotics for linear processes. The Annals of Statistics,
  pages 971­1001.

Portnoy, S. (2012). Nearly root-n approximation for regression quantile processes. The Annals of

                                                             39
  Statistics, 40(4):1714­1736.
Rilstone, P. (1996). Nonparametric estimation of models with generated regressors. International

  Economic Review, pages 299­313.
Saikkonen, P. (1995). Problems with the asymptotic theory of maximum likelihood estimation in

  integrated and cointegrated systems. Econometric Theory, 11(5):888­911.
Wang, C.-S. and Zhao, Z. (2016). Conditional value-at-risk: Semiparametric estimation and infer-

  ence. Journal of Econometrics, 195(1):86­103.
White, H. (1996). Estimation, inference and specification analysis. Number 22. Cambridge uni-

  versity press.
Xiao, Z. (2009). Quantile cointegrating regression. Journal of econometrics, 150(2):248­260.
Xu, W., Hou, Y., and Li, D. (2022). Prediction of extremal expectile based on regression models

  with heteroscedastic extremes. Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 40(2):522­536.
Yang, F., Qian, Y., and Xie, H. (2022). Addressing endogeneity using a two-stage copula generated

  regressor approach. Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Zhu, X. and Pan, R. (2020). Grouped network vector autoregression. Statistica Sinica, 30(3):1437­

  1462.
Zhu, X., Pan, R., Li, G., Liu, Y., and Wang, H. (2017). Network vector autoregression. The Annals

  of Statistics, 45(3):1096­1123.
Zhu, X., Wang, W., Wang, H., and Hardle, W. K. (2019). Network quantile autoregression. Journal

  of econometrics, 212(1):345­358.

                                                             40
